Human bodies vary vastly in sizes and shapes, and therefore can make garment fit challenging. To further complicate this challenge, surface dimensions on a body can also change size and become distorted during body movement. Garment fit can be especially important for comfort and performance of functional garments but can be often difficult to quantify. Understanding the interactions a garment has with the body, especially during movement, can provide information regarding the body-garment relationship and help evaluate and inform garment fit. One example of a functional garment and wearable system where fit is especially important is spacesuits. Astronauts wear spacesuits to protect themselves when they are exposed to extreme, life-threatening conditions. During extravehicular activity (EVA) astronauts can be subjected to dangerous and extreme temperatures. The liquid cooling and ventilation garment (LCVG) (Figure 1) is one of the base layers of the extravehicular mobility unit (EMU) spacesuit and lies close to the human body’s surface. The purpose of the LCVG is to regulate the human body’s temperature within a safe range through conduction while in a confined environment, such as the spacesuit. A tubing network within the garment that contains cool flowing water draws heat away from the body and is sent to the portable life support system (PLSS) where it is cooled again through a heat exchanger. Proper fit is important for the LCVG, as it related to body-garment contact, and affects the ability for the suit to effectively conduct thermal energy. This work establishes a method of measuring body-garment contact electrically, which can allow real-time detection of specific garment locations in contact with specific body/mannequin surface locations. An initial first pilot study used an electrical connection between the human body and a garment to determine if contact was made. The approach was then extended to include mannequin-based contact sensing with a second pilot test, which has an advantage of allowing body-side, mannequin-integrated electrodes to be electrically isolated (as opposed to using the human skin as one large electrode). In addition, mannequins offer advantages in precision and repeatability, especially for testing and validation purposes, which can be challenging with human bodies. However, mannequins typically are more limited in variety of body size and shape (due to the fabrication costs of producing multiple shapes), and may not perfectly reproduce the mechanical properties of human bodies. The second pilot study used an augmented mannequin with embedded individually addressable conductive electrodes that afforded electrical contact with two prototype garments. This contact-sensing approach has been extended, in order that humanand mannequinbased testing might be used together to develop a more detailed understanding of fit. Figure 1. LCVG worn as one of the base layers of the EMU space suit (front and back).