Emotions play a fundamental role in people’s life. They influence work performance, learning outcomes [20], decision making [30], physical health and more [27]. Emotional well-being has been reported to be one of the key components of health [36]. Positive emotions help people to cope with adversity and increase the emotional well-being [32]. On the other hand, poor emotional well-being can lead to disorders such as anxiety, depression and chronic stress. A recent study from the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that globally, more than 300 million people suffer from depression, and 260 million suffer from anxiety disorders [37]. The organization found that such disorders cost the global economy 1 trillion dollars in lost productivity each year [38]. The WHO proposes among other countermeasures, the promotion and the awareness of emotional well-being and the prevention of mental health disorders as possible solutions to this critical social situation. Given the importance and the impact of emotion in people’s daily life, computer science researchers have explored the role of technology for understanding and improving emotional well-being. The idea of integrating emotions and more generally affect into technology, was presented for the first time in 1997 in a seminal work by Rosalind Picard [25]. This opened a new field of study called Affective Computing. The author envisioned that giving to "computers" a human-like ability to recognize and even express emotions, would allow not only a better experience in the usage of electronic devices but also enable a strong support in everyday human activity. Most of the initial efforts in the Affective Computing field were conducted as controlled studies in laboratory settings [31]. Even though these approaches have been fundamental for building knowledge in this field, they present some limitations. Findings in laboratory settings often do not reflect real situations and the models built in these cases are less robust to background noise typical of real environments. With the recent advances in mobile and wearable technologies the idea of Affective Computing has reached a new dimension. The ubiquitousness and pervasiveness of mobile devices allow researchers to continuously and unobtrusively gather people’s personal data in everyday life settings. This opens plenty of new possibilities for Affective Computing, enabling the creation of systems able to continuously capture large amounts of data in real environments, infer emotional state and react accordingly to ameliorate people’s life. This is moving the studies on emotional well-being from laboratory