My doctoral research domain is to support caregiving by ubiquitous computing. Aging society has many big issue. One of these is insufficient number of caregivers. In my doctoral research, I am working on this problem, especially on pressure ulcer prevention from 2 approaches. The one is work-load reduction for posture change care with nursing interval optimization using continuous monitoring. Another one is learning acceleration for nursing students with visualization of patient’s body status. In addition, I am focusing on close range sensing to the body and interested in sensorization of garment, bed-sheet, cushion, and so on. To be used in elderly care and the body close range sensing, sensors for data acquisition should satisfy userfriendliness requirements. (I) Invisible: Sensors look strange and are unacceptable for many latter-stage elders, especially a dementia. (II) Inconspicuous: Most elders hate to be seen that they get a special care. (III) Whole body sensing: Wide sensing region which covers whole body parts can be used for every users. Then, I focus on a textile pressure sensor. We can use the sensor by almost the same way as ordinal textile. The sensor can be integrated into most textile-based equipments, such as garment and bed-sheet, naturaly, invisibly, and inconspicuously. Additionally, we can create such textile sensor based equipments with wide variety sensor size along for requirements of patient’s characteristics and target symptoms. An issue of posture-change interval optimization for pressure ulcer prevention with continuous monitoring is that there is no sufficient method to measure the pressure added to human skin directly. One cause of the pressure ulcer is high continuous pressure put on the same position of skin. Therefore, detection of continuous high pressure can lead to optimize the care interval. For many years, various studies have investigated with sensor integrated bed and bed-sheet, e.g. [7, 9]. Of course, we have done a similar experiment [4]. However, the experiment faced a problem that pressure-dispersion-cushions obstacle bed-sheet-type to measure bodypressure correctly. We addressed this issue by implementing a garment-type pressure sensor that measures such