A circuit analysis-design-optimization system, DCANAL, has been designed specifically for on-line interactive computer aided circuit design on the General Electric Desk Side Computer System. The system is useful for obtaining all the circuit responses of linear and nonlinear circuits. Transistor and diode operating points, effects of circuit element variations, and the design or optimization of element values for desired circuit responses may be quickly and easily determined. The features of the program system are
 1. Availability. All circuit designers at any Bell Telephone Laboratories location may access the program. Only a teletypewriter terminal is needed.
 2. Large Circuits. Fifty branch, 30 node circuits with 20 transistors and 20 diodes may be analyzed.
 3 Fast Response. Most analyses are performed within 30 seconds.
 4. Modeling Flexibility. Circuits may be modeled with resistors, controlled current sources, independent voltage and current sources, and “black boxes” represented as admittance matrices. Transistors and diodes may be modeled with the conventional Ebers-Moll equations or by data tables from measured terminal characteristics. The data tables, or the Ebers-Moll coefficients, may be stored in device files for easy recall.
 5. Design Optimization. Selected resistors may be designated as variable, and their values automatically designed to meet specified circuit responses. Circuits may also be automatically optimized by designing resistance values to constrain branch currents and voltages to lie between specified minimum and maximum values.
 6. Circuit Description Storage. Circuit descriptions may be saved and stored on files. Several versions of a circuit or several different circuits may be recalled for comparison or additional work. The same circuit file may be used for analysis, design, and optimization. Repeating the lengthy and error prone input is avoided.
 7. English Commands. All input commands consist of two English words directly associated with the function to be performed.
 8. Selective Output. Particular entries or entire arrays of node voltage, branch current, branch power, transistor and diode voltage and current, and circuit description may be selected as output.
 9. Element Modification. Any or all of the circuit elements may be temporarily or permanently modified.
 10. Parameter Variation and Sensitivity. Any specified circuit element may be varied over a prescribed range with any circuit response and its sensitivity selected as output.
 11. On-Line Distributions. All the up-to-date information on the capabilities, new factors, and modifications to the system are available in an auxiliary instruction program. This provides the user with the latest information when he needs it and where he needs it.