A survey of the computer science graduates at Angelo State University was conducted in May, 1977. Data was gathered concerning starting salary, current salary, job satisfaction, job location and job duties. The computer science program at Angelo State University was established in 1970 and since that time, 37 students have obtained undergraduate computer science degrees.Two degree programs in computer science are offered at Angelo State. The Bachelor of Science degree is designed to prepare students for further study in computer science and is tailored to students interested in the scientific aspects and applications of computing. Advanced undergraduate courses in this degree program prepare a student for employment as a systems programmer or software specialist. The Bachelor of Business Administration degree emphasizes commercial or business data processing applications and is designed to prepare students to enter the job market as business programmers or computer center managers.The data obtained from the survey was summarized for all computer science graduates and then considered separately for the Bachelor of Science graduates and then the Bachelor of Business Administration graduates. It was determined that the average starting salary for all graduates was $11,809 and the average current salary is $14,403. The average starting salary for Bachelor of Science graduates was $12,500 while the current average salary for Bachelor of Science graduates is $15,550. The Bachelor of Business Administration graduates received an average starting salary of $10,600 and have a current average salary of $12,395. The data obtained from the survey has also been analyzed according to the different industries in which the graduates are employed and in terms of the geographical location of their employment. While the results obtained from this survey are for a single small school, some generalizations can be made concerning the success of an undergraduate computer science curriculum that has been established according to the "Curriculum '68" guidelines.Much can be learned from surveying our computer science graduates. The valuable information that our graduates give us can do much to enhance and improve the computer science curriculum. This information can also do much to keep our current students informed as to what to expect in the marketplace.