In May 30, 1983, The New York Times published the article"Brazil Gathers Archive On Its Painter, Portinari". The author,Warren Hoge, narrates: "/The late Candido Portinari is consideredhere to be the greatest artist Brazil has ever produced, yet allbut a few of his 4,000 paintings are out of public view. They havebecome dispersed in private collections in so many places that hisbiographer compared their fate to that of Brazil's 18th-centuryrevolutionary hero Tiradentes, whose body was dismembered andstrewn along a 300-mile turnpike. The inaccessibility ofPortinari's work is particularly vexing to his enthusiasts becausehis own dedication to producing an epic view of Brazil for hiscountrymen was such that he continued painting even after doctorswarned that exposure to paint was killing him. He died of leadpoisoning at the age of 58. Now, in a pioneering effort for LatinAmerica, a team of experts in Rio is busy assembling the far-flungpieces of Portinari's obra into an exhaustive computerized archive."/We are trying to rescue what is authentically ours'/, saidJoão Candido Portinari, the painter's 44-year-old son, whois the coordinator of the group of researchers who make theirheadquarters on the leafy campus of Rio's Pontifical CatholicUniversity. A telecommunications engineer with a Ph.D. from theMassachusetts Institute of Technology and a former chairman of theuniversity's mathematics department, Mr. Portinari has broughtexacting technical standards to the task. Now four years into theproject, the 14-member team has compiled photographic,technical.
This presentation aims at describing the 26-year effortundertaken by the Portinari Project to locate, document, and recordall prints, drawings and paintings created by the Brazilian artistCandido Portinari (1903-1962), as well as all documents.
It is important to highlite the role of science and technologyin this endeavour. It was fascinating to watch, over the years, howmuch, as the Portinari Project evolved, the advances of science andtechnology, and especially those related to IR, were able toaddress important challenges encountered in its development. Inthis presentation, a few examples of this process shall bedescribed, such as the problem of identifying false paintings, thedigital preservation of color images, the building of a complexmultimedia knowledge database, etc.
We also present the social work of art education developed inmaking all this material available /in loco/ to a wide audience inBrazil and abroad, including school children, especially childrenfrom poverty-stricken families. This social inclusion action stemsfrom the fact that Portinari was deeply concerned to devoting hislife, as an artist and also as a political person, to social andhuman values. In his speech /Art in the United Nations/ at the.Palais des Nations., Geneve, Switzerland, Von Lauestein Massaraniobserved that.
*/Portinari bequeathed to his native Brazil paintings of greatpoetical intensity. He grew up on the vast coffee plantations ofBrodosqui in the state of Sao Paulo and it is this social settingwhich provided the inspiration for his work. All its human,cultural and religious aspects, captured by Portinari.s brush,reveal him as a .chronicler. of the concerns of twentieth-centuryBrazil. A rich plastic quality and variety of expressions arequalitites which give singular appeal to this deeply inspired work.His paintings are the successful achievement of his objectivethroughout his life: to arouse a feeling of the dignity of man, offraternity and community spirit/*.
*From these concerns, faithfully reflected in Portinari.sartistic legacy, we have been able to build an exceedingly powerfultool for developing a social acton that has already involved morethan 500,000 children for all over Brazil, as shall be demonstratedin our talk.
And finally we present one of the most important results of theproject: "Candido Portinari - Catalogue /Raisonné/",published in September 2004, in 5 volumes, containing 4,991 works,with all their images and their technical, bibliographic andhistorical data. An example of the complexity of this undertakingis the work involved in /dating/ Portinari's oeuvre. Half of theworks were undated and, /for each/ of these 2,500 works, it wasnecessary to cross it with 30,000 documents, to search if in aletter (6,000), in a periodical clipping (12,000), in a historicalphotograph (1,200), in an oral history recording (74 interviewed,130-hour total recordings), etc., one could find information thatwould eventually lead to the date the work was created. ThePortinari Project web site (http://www.portinari.org.br) presentsall 4,991 paintings, drawing and prints, and all 30,000 entering aword contained in the work's description. The Catalogue/Raisonnß/ also comprises a detailed chrono-biography of theartist's life and times, compiled from the 30,000 documents thatform the Portinari Project archives. To complete this 26-year task,the team visited almost all Brazilian states and more than 20countries in the three Americas, Europe and the Middle Orient.