1. INTRODUCTION As information diversifies and greatly increases in quantity, global Telecommunication Network Systems (TNSs) are becoming increasingly important. Thus, the information managed in TNS is rapidly increased in scale and becoming more and more decentralized. In a conventional TNS, the data management mechanism was relatively simple since the system emphasized massive traffic processing capability. However, as telecommunication service features become more sophisticated, data management of TNS does more important and costly. Hence, the modeling and analysis of data management of TNS are mandatory for better management, maintenance, and operation of TNS as well as for improving the development productivity and quality. This article proposes a new field of data management which is inter-disciplinarily incorporating the telecommunication and database (DB) technologies. 2. TELECOMMUNICATIONS DATA MANAGEMENT 2.1 Two Models of Data Management The following two models can be used for data management in TNS. 1) Centralized management at a particular node, management center. 2) Distributed management at the respective nodes, i.e. switches. We focus on the distributed data management since only a small amount of data is centrally managed in actual networks, and information resources lend to become more and more decentralized. 2.2 Data Management Architecture The data in TNS can be considered as hierarchical distributed data in two layers: network and node. Thus, the data management of TNS can be modeled by a two-layer Distributed DB Management System (DDBMS). 1) Network layer: Regarding the respective switches in TNS as a DBMS, the TNS itself can be seen as a loosely-coupled large-scale DDBMS. 2) Node layer: We propose a new architecture. It consists of a Call Switching Processor (CSP) and a Maintenance and Administration Processor (MAP), centered around a DB. The CSP processes real-time switching features and needs high-speed data access. The MAP provides a high-level interface with maintenance personnel. 2.3 Switching System Architecture Modem switching systems adopt multi-processor distributed architecture. We have developed a switching system of two-layer function and load distributed architecture [1]. It consists of a number of Coil PRocessors (CPRs) made up of multiple load distributed processors and a Management PRocessor (MPR) providing the total system administration. Functions of the CSP and MAP correspond to the CPR and MPR, respectively. The CPR and MPR incorporate a DDBMS in a switch. 3. DATA MODEL AND DATABASE ARCHITECTURE 3.1 Abstract Model of Data For the modeling of a DB structure in TNS, we have adopted the three-layer schema proposed …