Requirements documents are not enough in managing the development of software products for wide markets. Development projects have become shorter and involve many stakeholders within and outside the company. Software companies are missing the explicit links between business decisions and lower-level decision-making concerning a product’s future development steps. This work aims to develop practices in forming a high-level and long-term view of software products’ future development steps by combining knowledge from different stakeholder groups within the company. The ultimate goal of our work is to find if this kind of view can be used as a basis of value-based decision-making in requirements engineering. 1. Current Interests The authors of this position paper are researchers at the Software Business and Engineering Institute, Helsinki University of Technology. Currently, both of them are involved in the CORE –research project. The goal of the CORE project is to develop systematic practices for Finnish software development organisations so that they can cost-efficiently involve stakeholders to develop products that satisfy customer and user needs. In order to be successful in business, product development decisions should be linked to business decisions of the company [9]. It is recognized that R&D activities and the management of R&D must be fully integrated with other activities and management processes of new product development [8]. However, according to our experience, links between business decisions and product development decisions are not explicit in practice and different stakeholders in the Competitive Advantage through Stakeholder-Driven Requirements Engineering software companies work rather isolated from each other. Our current interest is in the link between strategic planning and product development decisions in software companies. We want to find out, what are the ways to link strategic planning and operational decision-making concerning the software product’s future (especially in requirements engineering phase) in practice.