Maxwell's equations represent govern the fundamental behavior of electromagnetic fields. Numerous efforts have been devoted to solve Maxwell's equations theoretically and numerically in complex media, such as anisotropic media and dispersive media. The FiniteDifference Time-Domain (FDTD) method is a powerful numerical technique for solving time-dependent Maxwell's curl equations in general media [1], [2). The basic FDTD technique has been extended over the years to solve increasingly more complicated media and geometries. In particular, in the past few years, FDTD has been extended to accommodate non-diagonal constitutive tensors, but the work done so far has been limited to second-order accurate schemes in both time and space. Our goal in this thesis is to derive and study extensions of FDTD to achieve a scheme with higher order of accuracy in space for the study of electromagnetic wave propagation in homogeneous and inhomogeneous anisotropic media. The objective of attaining high order FDTD method is to reduce the overall truncation error and dispersion error of the finite-difference approximations, and increase the overall accuracy of the numerical results. The 3D Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) method simulates structures in the time-domain using a direct form of Maxwell's curl equations. This method has the advantage over other simulation methods in that it does not use empirical approximations. Unfortunately, it requires large amounts of memory and long simulation times. This thesis applies parallel processing to the method so that simulation times are greatly reduced. Parallel processing, though, has the disadvantage in that simulation programs require to be segmented so that each processor processes a separate part of the simulation. Another disadvantage of parallel processing is that each processor communicates with neighbouring processors to report their conditions. For large processor arrays this can result in a large overhead in simulation time. Two main methods of parallel processing discussed: Transputer arrays and clustered workstations over a local area network (LAN). These have been chosen because of their relatively cheapness to use, and their widespread availability. The results presented apply to the simulation of a microstrip antenna and to propagation of electrical signals in a printed circuit board (PCB). Microstrip antennas are relatively difficult to simulate in the time-domain because they have resonant pulses. Methods that reduce this problem are discussed in the thesis. The thesis contains a novel analysis of the parallel processing showing, using equations, tables and graphs, the optimum array size for a given inter-processor communication speed and for a given iteration time. This can be easily applied to any processing system. Background material on the 3D FDTD method and microstrip antennas is also provided. From the work on the parallel processing of the 3D FDTD a novel technique for the simulation of the Finite-element (FE) method is also discussed. Master's Thesis from the year 2014 in the subject Computer Science Applied, grade: First, University of Manchester (School of Computer Science), course: Advanced Computer Science: Computer Systems Engineering, language: English, abstract: Due to recent advancement in technology, one of the popular ways of achieving performance with respect to execution time of programs is by utilizing massive parallelism power of GPU-based accelerator computing along with CPU computing. In GPUbased accelerator computing, the data intensive or computationally intensive part is computed on the GPU whereas the simple yet complex instructions are computed on the CPU in order to achieve massive speedup in execution time of the computer program executed on the computer system. In physics, especially in electromagnetism, Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) is a popular numerical analysis method, which is used to solve the set of Maxwells partial differential equations to unify and relate electric field with magnetic field. Since FDTD method is computationally intensive and has high level of parallelism in the computational implementation, for this reason for past few years researchers are trying to compute the computationally intensive part of FDTD methods on the GPU instead of CPU. Although computing parallelized parts of FDTD algorithms on the GPU achieve very good performance, but fail to gain very good speedup in execution time because of the very high latency between the CPU and GPU. Calculation results at each FDTD time-step is supposed to be produced and saved on the hard disk of the system. This can be called as data output of the FDTD methods, and the overlapping of data output and computation of the field values at next time step cannot be performed simultaneously. Because of this and latency gap between the CPU and GPU, there is a bottleneck in the performance of the data output of the GPU. This problem can be regarded as the inefficient performance of data input/output (I This thesis investigates the issues in deriving the Finite Di erence Time Domain Method, including the derivation of a unique method for exciting an FDTD system that is physically realistic in terms of acoustics. It is also the goal of this thesis to use the FDTD method as a tool for investigating various speaker placement con gurations for use in bass equalization. A demerit function is then developed in order to assess how well a particular equalization method performs relative to any others. The development and application of electronic devices rely on efficient, correct usage of electromagnetic (EM) waves. A widely used, universally applicable solution for the analysis of these waves is the Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) method. This method requires a massive amount of floating-point arithmetic to implement, leading to simulations that can take days or weeks to complete. To reduce these runtimes, and shorten design cycles, many different approaches have been used. To accelerate the FDTD method, some have used supercomputers and clusters. While effective, these solutions are expensive to build and maintain. Although commodity hardware has lowered hardware costs for these solutions, continuous costs such as housing, power, and cooling still remain. Others have sought the use of special-purpose hardware, such as ASICs, FPGAs, and DSPs. These solutions provide speedups that match the traditionally larger systems, yet also suffer from high costs due to demanding research and development. Clearly, a solution with the cost effectiveness of commodity hardware, manageability of small systems, and performance that exceeds existing solutions is desired. Page 2/6 Online Library The Finite Difference Time Domain Method For Electromagnetics With Matlab Simulations Aces Series On Computational Electromagnetics And Engineering To this end, my research employs modern commodity graphics processors to implement an accelerated FDTD solver that is 50x faster, scalable to numerous cards, and considerably cheaper ($600 per card) than existing solutions. With these capabilities, this solver enables rapid iterative simulations required for the design of electronic devices in modern engineering. The efficiency of the conventional, explicit finite difference time domain (FDTD) method is constrained by the upper limit on the temporal discretization imposed by the Courant-Friedrich-Lewy (CFL) stability condition. Therefore, there is a growing interest in overcoming this limitation by employing implicit, unconditionally stable FDTD methods for which time-step and space-step can be independently chosen. Unconditionally stable Crank Nicolson method has not been widely used in time domain electromagnetics despite its high accuracy and low anisotropy. This work presents a novel three-dimensional frequency dependent fully implicit Crank Nicolson FDTD method. A modified frequency dependent alternating direction implicit FDTD (FD-ADI-FDTD) method, having better accuracy than the normal FD-ADI-FDTD method, is also presented. Introduction to the Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) Method for Electromagnetics provides a comprehensive tutorial of the most widely used method for solving Maxwell's equations -the Finite Difference Time-Domain Method. This book is an essential guide for students, researchers, and professional engineers who want to gain a fundamental knowledge of the FDTD method. It can accompany an undergraduate or entry-level graduate course or be used for self-study. The book provides all the background required to either research or apply the FDTD method for the solution of Maxwell's equations to practical problems in engineering and science. Introduction to the Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) Method for Electromagnetics guides the reader through the foundational theory of the FDTD method starting with the one-dimensional transmission-line problem and then progressing to the solution of Maxwell's equations in three dimensions. It also provides step by step guides to modeling physical sources, lumped-circuit components, absorbing boundary conditions, perfectly matched layer absorbers, and sub-cell structures. Post processing methods such as network parameter extraction and far-field transformations are also detailed. Efficient implementations of the FDTD method in a high level language are also provided. Table of