Current research on Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITSS) has not presented a substantial student model which can be generalized to all ITSS. The purpose of this study was to design, tes~ and implement a quantitative student model (Syang, 1992) called the Angel Model to measure programming abilities of undergraduate students who have taken the first Computer Science course. This model (Angel Model) met the criteria for using an Item Response Theory (IRT) model; therefore, the data can be used for developing an IRT based Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT) system to measure students’ programming abilities at the completion of a CS 1 course. An important implication of this study is that when students’ understanding of a domain (e.g., Computer Science, Chemistry, and Physics) can be built quantitatively, a computerized adaptive test can then be developed effectively to measure students’ abilities in that domain. Hence, the quantitative student model can provide an Intelligent Tutoring System with knowledge about students’ abilities in that domain. INTRODUCTION Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITSS) are instructional systems that resemble what actually occurs when a student and a teacher sit down one-on-one and attempt to teach and learn together (Roberts& Park, 1983). Basically the components of an ITS are the subject matter to be taugh~ a method of representing what the student does and does not know, and the tutoring strategies. The subject matter component, called the “expertise module”, is not simply a listing of concepts and objects organized in textbook fashion. It is a knowledge structure that contains the knowledge source to be taught. Knowledge can be retrieved from the knowledge structure and presented to the student according to the student’s need. The expertise module is charged with the task of generating problems and evaluating the correctness of the student’s solutions. The second component of an ITS is called the “student model module.” This is a modeling module which represents the student’s understanding of the material to be Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. ACM-24thCSE-2/93 -lN,USA a 1993 ACM 0-89791 -566 -6/93 /000210053,.. $1 .50 taught and the student’s learning behaviors. The tutoring strategies component, called the “tutoring module,” can communicate with the student and provides appropriate instruction by analyzing the student model. Current research on ITS has not provided a substantial student model that can be generalized to all ITSS. If ITSS are to become more widely used, they must be generalized and therefore implemented with computer systems. In this research a quantitative student model was proposed and tested in real world classrooms. More specifically, a quantitative student model called the Angel Model was developed to measure computer programming abilities of undergraduate students who have taken ~and completed the first Computer Science course, The Angel Model is a testlet design in which questions are grouped into related units by associating each unit with a section of progmrn code. A testlet is a group of items related to a single content area that is developed as a unit and contains a fixed number of predetermined paths that an examinee may follow (Wainer & Kiely, 1987). For this research study the testlet design was defined as a method of designing a test which groups questions into related units rather than considering each question as an independent question. This study proposed a testlet design called the Angel Model which was applied in the domain of students’ programming abilities at the level of the completion of a CS 1 course. The goals of this research study were to detem~ine if a quantitative student model (Angel Model) is a feasible model which can be built to measure students’ programming abilities and to determine if the Angel Model meets the criteria for developing art Item Response Theory (IRT) based Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT) system. COMPUTERIZED ADAPTIVE TESTING (CAT) A Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT) system is a procedure which automatically administers an examination with questions (called items in the psychometrics literature) of appropriate difficulty for the student based on the ability of the student. In contrast to simple computerized testing which gives exam questions in a predetermined or random order, a CAT adapts the questions to the student. If the student answers a question correctly, the next test question is more difficult than the current one. Conversely, if the student’s answer for the current test question is incorrect, the next question is easier. As a result, different students receive different sets of test questions based on their responses to the questions.