It is our pleasure to welcome you to the 27th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST), held from October 5-8th 2014, in Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. 
 
UIST is the premier forum for the presentation of research innovations in the software and technology of human-computer interfaces. Sponsored by ACM's special interest groups on computer-human interaction (SIGCHI) and computer graphics (SIGGRAPH), UIST brings together researchers and practitioners from many areas, including web and graphical interfaces, input and output devices, information visualization, sensing technologies, interactive displays, tabletop and tangible computing, interaction techniques, augmented and virtual reality, ubiquitous computing, fabrication, wearable and mobile computing, and computer supported cooperative work. 
 
UIST 2014 received a record 333 technical paper submissions from 34 countries. After a thorough review process, the 36-member program committee accepted 74 papers (22.2%). Each anonymous submission was first reviewed by three external reviewers, and a meta-review was provided by a program committee member. If any of the four reviewers deemed a submission to pass a rejection threshold, we asked the authors to submit a short rebuttal addressing the reviewers' concerns, and a second member of the program committee was asked to examine the paper, rebuttal, and reviews, and to provide their own meta-review. The program committee met in person in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on June 19th and 20th, 2014, to select which papers to invite for the program. Submissions were accepted only after the authors provided a final revision addressing the committee's comments. 
 
In addition to papers submitted directly, the symposium program includes two papers from the ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction journal (TOCHI), as well as 31 posters, 48 demonstrations, and 8 student presentations in the tenth annual Doctoral Symposium. Our program also features the sixth annual Student Innovation Contest. This year, there are 24 teams taking part in the contest, which is focused on household interfaces based on the Kinoma Create platform by Marvell. UIST 2014 will feature two keynote presentations. The opening keynote will be given by Mark Bolas (University of Southern California) on designing the user in the user interface. Bret Victor will deliver the closing keynote on the impact of dynamic media on representation of thought. 
 
Our community has been growing tremendously both in the number of submissions as well as attendees. For the first time, this year's program will be held in two parallel tracks. We hope that you will find our program interesting and thought-provoking and that UIST 2014 will provide you with a valuable opportunity to exchange results at the cutting edge of user interfaces research, to meet friends and colleagues, and to forge future collaborations with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world.