Ethnography is a methodology which emphasises a "soft" interpretative approach to social reality. It is often portrayed as being at the opposite pole to quantitative approaches as exemplified in the classic Merton-Lazarsfeld paradigm (Structural-Functionalism wedded to the survey method).Ethnography is a method in which the researcher actively engages in and records the life of a social group. This record of experience is essentially qualitative. It is primarily constructed in the form of textual description: an ongoing account of a person's observations, thoughts and feelings while in the "field". This text is usually given the generic title of field-notes.The Ethnographic researcher is therefore normally confronted with a vast amount of textual data. To get some understanding of, and control over this data, the Ethnographer must in some way split up this record of raw experience. He must in some way "chunk" up his data into easily manageable units or categories. It is this classificatory activity which forms the basis of Ethnographic analysis.In greater detail, Ethnographic data analysis may be generally portrayed as consisting of three analytically distinct, but empirically indistinct activities: represents a1. The reading of field-notes, accompanied by the recording of themes and hypotheses;2. The coding of important topics observed within the field-notes under different category headings;3. The disassembling of field-notes by coded category; the purpose being the creative filing and retrieving of one's data.The prime concern of this presentation will be to discuss means by which such analysis may be accomplished.It is the author's belief that the schema shown below possible evolutionary trend in Ethnographic data analysis: items lower down the schema give the Ethnographer greater power and flexibility in the way he handles text. Reference will be made to presently ongoing research at Cardiff as evidence of this claim.1. The Traditional Filing Cabinet.a. Simple chronological filing of text.b. Multiple filing: the actual disassembling of text into files.2. The Filing cabinet and Separate Indices.a. Chronological filing: card indices.b. Chronological filing: specialised indices.c. Chronological filing: computer indices.3. The Full Computer Approach.a. Indices and fieldnotes stored on UNIX.b. A System of Personalised Interactive Computing for Ethnographers. SPICE: a term purely invented to emphasise the "spice" of Ethnographic research.Finally, this presentation will also discuss the implications that this research has for textual management in general. The projected computer arrangement will, I believe, prove of advantage not only to the Ethnographer, but to any researcher who employs continuous text as his/her primary resource.