We present Imogen, a fully parallel code for simulating either the Euler or Ideal MHD equations, in two or three dimensions, on GPUs and GPU clusters. Fluid dynamic codes have historically been written entirely in either Fortran or C/C++. Imogen combines the power of GPU acceleration and compiled CUDA solver modules under the hood with the ease of development, ease of use, and ease of modification characteristic of interpreted languages as everything but the core numeric routines is written in Matlab.
 Our basic goal of writing a highly parallel and fast fluid simulation code driven by Matlab which is GPU accelerated and fully parallel has been largely achieved at this time. We have tested simulations with up to 350 million cells using as many as 50 GPUs on the University of Oregon's ACISS supercomputer, and see no technical reason we could not use many more. Depending on the complexity of the physics used, a single C2070 device can handle as many as 25 million computation cells and still achieve simulation rates as high as a few seconds per timestep. Even though the code runs in an interpreted environment, we have found that interpretation overhead is quite small. Tests simulations with a resolution of 83 found roughly 80ms per complete iteration of overhead on a test workstation, which would be no more than a few percent of the time used by a large simulation.
 We use a standard fluid scheme neatly summarized in [1] and the exactly ∇ • Β preserving magnetic update algorithm of [2]. Fluid and MHD problems are tested against Imogen and we find that its convergence is second order in both space and time. Because Imogen is a relatively new code, implementation and testing of support for extended physics is a continuous and ongoing process. The use of operator splitting means that new non-ideal effects can be implemented and tested without amending the fluid code.
 The structures which kernels follow depending on the specifics of the finite differencing they will be undertaking is examined for patterns. Common errors encountered in the development process are explored.
 In addition, work in progress on the application of Imogen to research into two astrophysical phenomenon, accretion shocks and the protostellar disks, is briefly presented. The linear instability of MHD shock waves for many/most possible parameters is established, and while there has been nonlinear work [3] it appears to largely be assumed that the distortion will keep growing and completely destroy the shock front in the nonlinear regime; We have observed severe distortion but have not seen a breakup. We also present early experiments in applying Imogen to differentially rotating disks.