Over the past few years in Japan, the number of senior citizens has increased remarkably, and around 1,650,000 of them have gait disorders. Gait disorder means to become difficult of gait by many kinds of cause. For examples, cerebrovascular disorders and joint trouble are the main causes of gait disorders, which are common ailments among those aged 65 to 74. They may be unrelated to the working Conditions. Many researchers have made progress in having robot surrogates replace humans in many dangerous and dirty endeavors, especially in the fields of aerospace [1] and atomic power [2], so as to reduce the need to expose people to risks and also to reduce training costs. However, such robot surrogates have not replaced humans in educational environments. Loco mart like treadmill, wearable power-assistance devices and support robots have been developed for the rehabilitation of people with gait disorders, and load-free treadmills for walking rehabilitation have been executed in a clinical environment [3,4]. A treadmill is a useful apparatus for gait training and for making evaluations; however, many differences have been reported between walking on a treadmill and walking over the ground. Experimental comparisons of the muscular activity of the leg and of the heart rate have been carried out [5]. The results suggest care be taken because the training adjustment for treadmills may be dangerous and place an excessive load on patients. There are two loads here: The load of the robot receives from a load imposed by an outside force [6]. Many machines and tools have been developed for controlling gait, such as ambulation-support machines [7] and loco motor training tools [8]. This research applies Feasibility Study (FS) to the problem of Law Governing Engineering and Engineering Ethics and the necessity of robot control and treadmill control in adjustment of surrogate walking training to reduce the risk of overloading patient. The authors reduce this risk by constructing a two-legged surrogate robot of about 1/4 the scale of an average human being in such an adjustment stage. Assisted-Active Walking