The purpose of this paper is to describe the Computer Science Laboratory at the University of Washington, explain how it is run, and to examine both its benefits and costs to the University. In order to do so, it is necessary to discuss briefly the University of Washington itself. The University of Washington is a very large, single-campus, state university. In a typical quarter approximately 33,000 students are enrolled. There is a faculty of about 2,000. By contrast, the computer science program is a small interdisciplinary program confined strictly to graduate education. The program was begun in 1967, and granted its first PH.D. in 1968. There are at present somewhat more than 40 graduate students and a full-time equivalent faculty of about seven. Prior to the development of the program, there were, of course, teaching courses in Electrical Engineering and other departments and a few courses in mathematics, but the advanced computer science stamp for the University of Washington had not yet been established.
 The equipment on campus is also important to our story. The University Computer Center operates a Control Data 6400 and a Burroughs B5500. These machines are available to the general user, although the B5500 gives priority to administrative data processing. Use of the machines is charged either to research accounts or to special departmental accounts established to support computing. That is, the Computer Center does not decide who runs on the computer. Rather, this is levied as a charge against departmental budgets. Like any other department, the Computer Science Group also has a budget for computing on the Center's equipment. In addition, there are a variety of special computers on campus. For example, the Physics Department contains a PDP-10 and an XDS-930. There is a very large Raytheon computer complex in Biophysics and there are a number of 1130 and 1800 installations on campus. All these centers are associated with specific research projects, and, therefore, are available only to students who are working with the faculty on these projects. In addition, the University has provision for favorable rates on a number of commercial time-sharing installations. Departments do not receive funds for off campus computing, so that extramural funds must be sought by anyone who wishes to make use of a conversational computing capability.