Computers and computing are topics of discussion in many curriculum areas in seconary school. The four courses recommended by this task group, however, have computing as their primary content. The courses are: i) Introduction to Computer Science I (a full year course) 2) Introduction to Computer Science II (a full year course) 3) Introduction to a High-level Computer Language (a half-year course) 4) Applications and Implications of Computers {a half-year course) Courses 1 and 2 are designed for students with a serious interest in computer science. Course 1 can serve as a single introduction course for some students and also act as a prerequisite for Course 2. At the end of two years of study, students should be prepared to be placed in second level computer science classes in post-secondary educational institutions or to take the Advanced Placement Exam available through the College Entrance Exam Board. Courses 1 and 2 will require a significant amount of equipment for each student enrolled. Computers, either microcomputers or a timesharing system, with convenient storage for files (disks) and high-speed printers are necessary. Courses 3 and 4 are designed to be of general interest to any student at the secondary level. Course 3 is a course about programming. It is a general introduction to the process of writing programs in a high-level computer language. It requires extensive hardware facilities, as students will need to practice using whichever computer language is chosen for the instruction. Course 4 includes information about the ways computers are used and about the impact of computer use on people's lives. Because students in this course will be using a computer to learn about applications, teaching this course requires extensive software in addition to hardware. Courses I, 3, and 4 have been designed assuming no prerequisite courses and are not interdependent. Teachers of all four of these courses should be qualified in the content area and preferably certified to teach about computing and computer science. The discipline of computer science has been evolving over several years and will continue to change. Courses in computer science will similarly continue to change. Well-trained teachers are the connerstone of effective instruction in such a fluid environment.