A natural generalization of ordinary precedence constraints are so-called AND~OR precedence constraints. In all AND constraint, a job must wait for all its predecessors while in an OR constraint, a job has to wait for at least one of its predecessors. We provide a linear-time algorithm for deducing additional AND/OR precedence constraints that are implied by the given ones. We show that this algorithm can also be used to verify feasibility of the given constraints. Besides their theoretical value, these results have significant impact in practical applications such as scheduling and assembly sequencing; we show how to use our algorithm to improve solution procedures for resource-constrained project scheduling problems. Finally, we prove that for a related, more general model, the problems under consideration are strongly NP-complete. I n t r o d u c t i o n . For a set V of activities or jobs, precedence constraints are usually given by a set E of ordered pairs ( i , j ) , i ~ j E V, inducing an acyclic digraph (V, E) with the meaning that job j can only start after the completion of all jobs i with ( i , j ) E E. In addition to these AND or conjunctive precedence constraints, one may quite natural ly consider disjunctive (OR) precedence constraints. Such constraints are given by pairs (X, j ) , X C V, j E V \ X, where job j may be started if at least one job i E X has been completed. We call j the waiting job for ( X , j ) and denote the set of all waiting conditions (X, j) by W. Notice that for a singleton X = {i}, the waiting condition (X, j ) is an ordinary AND precedence constraint (i, j ) . An application of AND/OR precedence constraints in resource-constrained project scheduling is described below. Another interesting application has been given by Goldwasser and Motwani [1]. They consider the problem of partially disassembling a given product to reach a single part (or component) of the product. In order to remove a certain part , one previously may have to remove other parts which can be modeled by ordinary (AND) precedence constraints. However, one may choose Berlin, Department of Mathematics, Sekr. MA 6-1, Strafle des 17. Juni 136, D-10623 Berlin, Germany, {moehring, skutella, stork}~math.tu-berlin.de. The second author is supported by DONET within the fraxne of the TMR Programme (contract number ERB FMRX-CT98-0202). The third author is supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) under grant Mo 446/3-3. to remove that same par t of the product from another (geometric) direction, in which case some different parts may have to be removed previously. This freedom of choice can be modeled by disjunctive (OR) precedence