The ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on QoE-based Analysis and Management of Data Communication Networks, Internet-QoE'16 was born as a means to cover a growing need in the conception and applicability of user-centric, QoE-based solutions to the large scale analysis and management of modern operational networks. 
 
The main goal of the Internet-QoE workshop is to scale QoE out of the traditional lab studies context and bring it to the analysis and operation of data communication networks, giving a use-centric perspective to the network measurements and analysis community. QoE remains a poorly understood domain, currently restricted to small scale studies and very far from the analysis of real networks. Especially in the industry, QoE has become a buzz word, far from its reality within the research community, and partly due to the complexity involved in deploying QoE-based network analysis and management solutions. By fostering an explicit and deep integration of the end-user directly into the design, analysis and management of large-scale operational networks, we expect to reduce the gap between QoE research and its application to future network management paradigms, as well as to provide a more targeted end-user perspective to the research on data communication networks. 
 
A secondary yet major goal of Internet-QoE is to bridge the QoE and Internet measurements research communities, which are currently loosely coupled. On the one hand, the network measurements research community is so far missing a deeper QoE know how and expertise. On the other hand, the QoE research community needs a better and more complete understanding of the functioning, structure and open problems behind large-scale operational networks. Internet-QoE brings together researchers and practitioners from the Internet measurements and analysis domain and the QoE modeling and assessment domain, as well as industry players willing to integrate QoE aspects into the DNA of their daily business, with direct applications in network dimensioning, monitoring, management, and troubleshooting among others. 
 
Internet-QoE'16 accepted 10 technical papers out of 21, high-quality submissions. The paper review process included an evaluation phase by PC members, followed by an online discussion of the top ranked papers, out of which 7 were directly accepted to appear in the program, and 3 went into a shepherding phase. The resulting program features a variety of high-quality papers focusing on different aspects of QoE and network measurements, including QoE-based network monitoring and assessment, QoE-based network management, as well as QoE modeling and analysis. 
 
Internet-QoE'16 also features three exciting keynotes from recognized researchers in the QoE and network measurements domains: (i) "Improving Web Performance", by Prof. Harsha V. Madhyastha (University of Michigan, US), (ii) "The Challenges of Measuring Internet Quality of Experience", by Dr. Renata Cruz Teixeira (INRIA Paris, France), and (iii) "On the Analysis and Modeling of Quality of Experience for Video Streaming", by Prof. Maria Papadopouli (University of Crete and FORT, Greece).