The paper presents discussion of interrelation between human intelligence and computer functioning. Differences are demonstrated between heuristic search of a r t i f i c i a l intelligence and human intelligence actirity. "Machinocentrism" as a trend of comaring human and machine functions is strongly criticised. Three programs of a r t i f i c i a l intelligence development are analysed. It is demonstrated that the goal of approximation to human intelligence is being set under conditions of either disregarding or restricted use of psychological data about human intelligence. A real recreation of human intelligence in the work of computer is being associated with simulation of needs, emotional regulation of search, goal-formation , selective reflection of the situation. It is stated that representation of man and his intelligence as "just a machine" makes up the basis of the specific form of natural-scientific materialism which is being developed in bounds of artificial intelligence as a scientific trend. Psychological problems arizing in connection with origin ans use of a r t i f i-cial intelligence are also formulated. Analysis of theoretical principalee of artificial intelligence as a scientific trend obtains critical importance. Comparison of human intellect and machine functioning, exposure of their similarities and differences is one of the most significant approaches to this trend analysis. Yet this analysis would be impossible without addressing philosophy and psychology-the sciences that have been traditionally studying human intellect. Machine realisation of such games as chess and checkers is often mentioned as a cogent indicator of machine Intellect existence, Psychology obtains data, that one and the same problem may be solved by man and computer using different principles and that similarity of formal results estranged (written or typed) from the solving system can not serve as a basis for "diagnosing 19 that computer has human intelligence (1) • Between the heuristic search analysed in the theory of artificial i n t e l l i-gence on the one hand and human intellect activity on the other there are Important differences which should not be ignored. The first difference is connected with the fact that the so called heuris-tic search is described in artificial intelligence works in relation to the problems having precisely defined i n i t i a l situation and precisely defined goal, while it is characteristic of man to form goals and to distinguish i n i t i a …