WORKSHOP OVERVIEW It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the ACM Fourth International Workshop on Data and Text Mining in Biomedical Informatics (DTMBIO'10), in conjunction with the 19th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM'10). The rapid development of bioinformatics techniques is tightly coupled with development within several fields in computer science, including data mining, information retrieval, and database management systems, among others. A fundamental topic of research within bioinformatics is how to make effective use of the tremendous amount of biological and biomedical data to improve the understanding of biological systems. Such data include, but are not limited to, gene and protein sequences, gene expression profiles from microarray experiments, protein structure predictions resulting from high-throughput computational methods, protein-protein interactions from proteomic studies, single nucleotide polymorphisms profiles from SNP arrays, and much bibliographic information from electronic medical journals. The need to automatically and effectively extract, understand, integrate, and make use of information embedded in such heterogeneous unstructured data drives the current research in bioinformatics.This year’s workshop continues the tradition of bringing together researchers that work in the field of data mining, text mining, and computational biology and providing a forum to present and discuss current research topics at the interface of the related fields. The mission of DTMBIO is to promote a tighter connection between literature search and data analysis within biomedical informatics. In particular, this year we focus on the following two themes: (1) Data and text mining for biomedical applications, and the identification of relevant background knowledge in database annotations or in text documents, such as scientific publications.. And (2) Knowledge discovery through the integration of heterogeneous biomedical data collected from electronic bulletin boards, scientific publications, and any type of experiments. Furthermore, we put more focus this year on the integration of bioinformatics and medical informatics toward translational research. The papers accepted for presentation and publication in this volume cover a variety of topics, including bio-text mining, translational bioinformatics, systems bioinformatics, bio-ontology management, sequence analysis for massively parallel sequencing, protein-protein interactions, biomedical data classification, and biomedical information retrieval. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable and up-to-date reference about the application of dataand text-mining techniques within biomedical informatics.