A wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) network is a network of optical fibers and components that supports multiple wavelength channels along each fiber. A heterogeneous WDM network is one that is composed of sub-networks each supporting possibly different sets of wavelength channels. Thus the number of wavelength channels, nl, on the input fibers to a cross-connect connecting one such sub-network to another will possibly differ from the number of wavelength channels, n2, on its output fibers. In order to balance the number of channels coming into and going out of such a cross-connect it is possible then that the number of input fibers, kl, will differ from the number of output fibers, k2. We study the design of such cross-connects. In particular we consider strictly non-blocking WDM cross-connects where a cross-connect C is strictly non-blocking if it is always capable of routing any unused wavelength channel on any fiber entering C onto any unused wavelength channel on any fiber leaving C regardless of any other routes already in use within C. Any such WDM cross-connect will need some number of wavelength interchangers, expensive optical components that translate incoming wavelength channels onto different outgoing wavelength channels. We provide a simple method for constructing a kl × k2 strictly non-blocking WDM crossconnect having at most min(kl -t-k2 1, nlkl) wavelength interchangers for any kl < k2. A proof is then given showing that these constructions are optimal in that any such WDM cross-connect for a heterogeneous network must have at least min(kl + k2 1, nl kz) wavelength interchangers. *Supported by a Lucent Technologies GRPW fellowship. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed fbr profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the lull citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. STOC 2000 Portland Oregon USA Copyright ACM 2000 1-58113r 184-4/00/5...$5.00