This experience paper discusses the use of index card based analysis tools by small teams of prototypers and system end users as a means for investigating potential Human Computer Interaction (HCI) concepts for future software development purposes. Several refinements to the basic ClassResponsibilities-Collaborators (CRC) card technique referenced in [Beck & Cunningham] have been made including: the use of a scenario narrative to guide the analytical process; the incorporation of user action and object connection cards; the color coding of cards; and the use of story boards and card model diagrams. Emphasis is placed on the identification of object connection types as a means of suggesting temporal, spatial, comparative and organizational HCI metaphors. INTRODUCTION While programmers and systems analysts working with object-oriented tools are familiar with the concepts of data encapsulation, inheritance and message passing, these ideas are not necessarily intuitive to end users with little or no software design experience. These individuals employ other, more fundamental, object based paradigms to accurately describe real world situations. Our interest is in collaborative, analytical tools which provide a framework for exploring alternative HCI concepts with end users. 1992 ACM 0-89791~539-9/92/0010/0146 The feedback gained from the rapid prototyping of HCI concepts is a valuable source of information for any project. HCI analysis tools, used during the early stages of the system development process, help the project decide what to prototype. Based upon our experience, we believe that a fundamental requirement for these analysis tools is that they represent a given problem domain in terms rapidly understandable by its user community. Without enabling this understanding, the customer can loose control over a critical aspect of their system: its user interface. BACKGROUND We began our work with small user groups by employing the CRC Card analysis techniques described by [Beck & Cunningham], The tools discussed in this paper evolved from this point driven by three general objectives: . Permit the exchange of ideas between end-user Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and the prototyping staff regarding the customer information flow process. Our immediate objective was to increase prototyper understanding of the target system operational environment. Work in this area led to the Scenario Narrative procedure. l Permit user community validation of a model (developed jointly by the prototypers and users) which highlights priority objects, connections between objects and user actions found in the customer environment. An Object-ActionConnection Card Set and Model Diagram, are used for this purpose. The model generated by using the cards provides the basis for defining alternative HCI concepts with the users. . Provide methods to assist users in selecting alternative HCI concepts for actual prototyping. HCI concepts are illustrated using Story Boards, which depict a sequence of object views suggested by correlating object connections and user actions. The following paragraphs describe our experiences with these tools in small end user prototyper working groups at the U.S. Army Intelligence Center, Fort Huachuca, Arizona. SCENARIO NARRATIVE The objective of the first analysis team meeting is the creation of this document. The scenario narrative provides a short textual description of an information flow process and helps to identify objects, user actions and object connections for further analysis. The narrative provides boundaries for the analysis effort, limiting the scope of the problem domain considered by the team. Multiple scenario narratives, each focused on a different segment of an organization’s information flow process, will normally be required to survey the entire problem domain. Emphasis is placed on keeping each narrative as short as possible; preferably limited to a single page. Supporting reference materials describing organizational inputs, processes and products are left to an appendix. An example scenario narrative, describing the information flow process associated with using the tools discussed in this paper, is provided in the insert. We suggest completing the initial draft of the narrative as quickly as possible, and avoiding efforts aimed at making it anything more than a working document. Creating and displaying the narrative on poster board size paper during the initial analysis meeting is one possible technique for achieving this. The scenario narrative is a starting point for the more detailed discussion and definition of problem domain objects, user actions and object connections which occurs by using the card set. THE CARD SET We introduce this tool by asking the analysis team to review the narrative for noun and verb phrases which identify objects and user actions in the information flow process. Each object and user 1 An Example Scenario Narrative. 1. Visualizing Objects starts by creating a scenario narrative. The narrative provides a textual description of an information flow process. 2. After a draft of the narrative is completed, the analysis team reviews it to identify potential objects and user actions. 3. Object names and categories (Tangible Thing, Incident/ Event or Role/Organization) are recorded on index cards. User Action labels and categories (Analysis or Control) are also recorded. 4. Object cards are laid out on a table, initially by their order of appearance in the narrative. Action cards are laid down next to their object cards. The arrangement of the cards may be changed and new cards may be added to the set. 5. Object card definition, has and do sections are completed as each object is discussed. Statements describing user actions are added to the action cards as they are discussed. 6. Connection cards are added to the card set. Each connection card has a title (developed from the narrative or by looking at the objects on the table) and a type (Temporal, Spatial, Comparative or Organizational). 7. Story Boards are drawn to illustrate possible HCI display concepts suggested by an object connection. They also depict the user actions which are supported by the objects in the display. 6. The final arrangement of all the cards on the table is recorded on a Card Model Diagram. 9. The Scenario Narrative, Card Set, Model Diagram and Story Board are used to brief the analysis results to larger user groups and as design inputs for the construction of HCI prototypes. 1