Community Question Answering (CQA) has emerged recently and it becomes popular among people. During the process of the communication, different knowledge can be merged. Recently, several vendors use the business model of paying for knowledge to make these knowledge to the monetary benefits, then the Pay-for-Knowledge Communities (PKC) have been applied. Even PKC has interesting business model, there are several problems to be solved, and one of the most salient problem is that questioners may takes too long time to choose the most valuable answers, leading to questioners not able to pay for suitable answerers and many problems about platforms' operation There are several previous research has focused on this problem but still have not found satisfactory solutions as questions and answers are more and more complex in PKC platforms. With the development of cognitive computing techniques, applying an intelligent QA system in PKC to improve the answering effectiveness may be possible. In this paper, we tried to investigate how to apply the intelligent QA system into PKC platform to improve the answering effectiveness. For solving the problems of matching complex questions and answers, we present a Four Module QA Model based on the normal intelligent QA System. Compared to normal intelligent QA System, our model uses categories to classify the questions with traditional machine learning methods. We use answers in each category of corresponding questions as one dataset, answers in each entity of corresponding question as the other dataset, finally, these two datasets make up the document database. Then we got the best answer among past answers through comparing the TF-IDF weighted bag-of word vectors of two datasets or the new answer including key words through Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) algorithm with PKC's features composed of centrality and money. Experiments were developed on a dataset with 1222 users' QA sites collected from a QA community. The model we proposed is expected to increase QA's effectiveness and improve the business model of Pay-for-Knowledge Communities.