Managing large systems development projects has never been easy. Object technology projects face the difficulties of traditional projects, plus some new challenges of their own. Many of the new challenges come from object technology’s emphasis on iterative development rather than the traditional waterfall model. Others come from object technology’s emphasis on component reuse throughout all levels of the system-from infrastructure, to business rules, to user interface. This paper describes a “milestone” delivery approach that one AMS team used to control the iterative development of a large object project. The approach divides the development into milestone releases every two to three months. Each milestone delivered a working system to the client. Early milestones delivered infrastructure and basic functionality while later ones delivered a more complete system. A layered object architecture provided a framework for extending functionality over successive milestones. The team also used several tactics for managing reuse development. First, the team organized to support reuse. Second, standards and conventions provided control for a large group of programmers. Third, mini-releases kept the whole team marching forward together. Finally, regression testing ensured that objects worked consistently throughout development. Large Systems Development Problem Large systems development has always been complex and difficult. A large project team typically must sort through a maze of complicated business requirements, implementation options, and technical hurdles. In our project example, a large health care provider contracted with AMS to develop a financial system to support order entry, billing, claims production, accounts receivable, and customer service applications. We partnered with our client to organize a team of over fifty people to develop this system in a client server architecture using C++ as the primary development tool. The initial estimate for complete system delivery was about three years. This type of large-scale systems development is not easy to manage. The development team needed an approach to make the problem more manageable. Milestone Delivery Solution First, we divided the system scope into several twelve month phases. lhis allowed the team to reduce risk by shortening the development lifecycle. We could also deliver some benefits earlier than would be possible with a waterfall approach. Earlier delivery also builds business support for the effort. Second, the team adopted a milestone approach to system delivery. The first phase consisted of a twelve month development effort that contained four milestones. Each milestone took two to three months