Dynamic multi-agent planning has many shortcomings in real-world domains. Specifically, it is not clear how servic es can be discovered and located in dynamic non-fault-tolerant networks. Examples of such include multi-hop ad hoc wireless and dynamic peer-to-peer networks. The nature of ad hoc and peer-to-peer networks inherently imposes the restriction of communication to one’s “neighbors.” Therefor e, communication over multiple hops in the network is difficult without facilities such as ad hoc routing. In these networks , the problem of locating a service is compounded when services themselves can be mobile. In some domains mobile agents can be service providers. For example, consider a group of helicopters deployed on a battlefield, as in the synthetic aircraft domain (Tambe 1998 ). A certificate authority might be required for secure communication between helicopters; this server could be encapsulated by a mobile agent capable of reasoning about the network (Artz, Peysakhov, & Regli 2003). The agent might then continuously migrate to portions of the network with low volatility. For instance, the agent might migrate to hel icopters less likely to be removed from the network. To improve performance and minimize latency, heuristics for such migration might include proximity to the geographic center of the group or association with the centroid of the network topology graph. Therefore a method for pro-actively tracking the location of services in dynamic networks is required. No fixed memory deterministic algorithm can locate a service in a network in a fixed amount of time (Kirousis et al. 2000). We propose a fixed-memory randomized method for approximating the location of a service in a dynamic network with a probabilistic certainty in a fixed amount of time. Deploying a set of service monitoring agents to randomly walk the hosts of a dynamic peer-to-peer network can provide an accurate means of service discovery. The agents’ task environment, a dynamic peer-to-peer network, is stochastic, dynamic, and continuous; there exists a delay between actual topology changes and the propagation of knowledge of these changes throughout the network. The agents do not have a goal, per se; their sole purpose is to randomly walk the network gathering information. Agents’ percepts are comprised solely of the set of services avail