Introduction. The existing problem of continuous planning in transportation logistics requires the solving of dynamic Vehicle Routing Problems (dynamic VRPs) which is an NP-complete optimization problem. The task of continuous planning assumes the existence of individual commit times for orders to be released for execution with specific commitment strategies and is similar to the problem of maintaining a guaranteed response time in real-time systems that, in a dynamic environment, applies additional restrictions on planning algorithms. This paper describes the developed multi-agent platform for solving the dynamic multi-vehicle pickup and delivery problem with soft time windows (dynamic m-PDPSTW) that supports goaldriven behavior of autonomous agents with a multi-objective decision-making model. Further research on the design of adaptive mechanisms for run-time feedback-directed adjustment of scheduling algorithms through learning and experience of applied decision options is outlined. The market-based method for distributed dynamic resource allocation. The authors’ multi-agent approach to continuous planning in complex uncertain environments implements the concept of the dynamic distributed resource allocation (Modi et al. 2002) whereby decision making is carried out by means of asynchronous quasi-parallel processes of negotiation between the agents of resources and the agents of orders which are working distributively in a virtual marketplace over all the agents of the complex shared ontology object. Goal-driven behavior of autonomous agents is supported by the developed multiobjective decision-making model based on individual goals, criteria, and preference functions defined in the virtual marketplace ontology and methods of agent self-appraisal and decision-making strategies (priority of criteria, value superposition, and homeostasis). In the implemented framework for agent knowledge representation, based on Prof. Marvin Minsky’s concept of frames, each autonomous agent in the virtual marketplace has its individual knowledge, agent memory with a dynamic decision-making table, experience of applied deciCopyright © 2007, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. sion options, and reality representation of the world model (a shared ontological scene of reality) in an individual ontological scene and has its own perception via sensors and facades (Chevelev et al. 2006). The presented process of self-organization in such a multi-agent system is based on the constant search to maintain a dynamic balance among the interests of all participants in the interaction by means of an economically decentralized method of agent behavioral coordination. The microeconomic model defines violation functions of agent preferences with personal accounts for agents and reflects individual expenses and profits for all agents at any moment of distributed decision-making process. Furthermore, this microeconomic model provides the basis for decentralized mechanisms for controlling emergent behavior and stabilizing of agent swarms. Control methods of self-organization in complex environments. Conducted experiments on agent microeconomic parameters demonstrates that the complex system of interacting autonomous agents is characterized by the opportunity of the existence of several stable equilibria (attractors), by the unpredictable nonlinear processes of transitions between them, and by the emergence of resonating and oscillatory properties in the system. Special attention was given to the simulated processes of the significant internal reconfiguration of the agent system in response to the smallest external signals (a catastrophe) – trifling alterations on the agent local level led to a large-scale schedule reconstruction. Effective control mechanisms for selforganization need to be developed to make multi-agent systems more effective in solving dynamic VRPs with a view to achieving practical levels of performance for continuous planning in complex environments with higher levels of uncertainty, such as multi-modal logistics with multiple, competing companies. The developed mechanisms provide control methods for achieving both of the contending objectives: the transition of the multi-agent system toward the global quasi-optimal state while avoiding undesirable local attractors and the stabilization of agent activity and limitation of schedule reconstruction for maintaining a guaranteed response time for orders to be scheduled and released for execution according to their individual commitment times.