This paper deals with the problems of computing a maximal independent set and a vertex coloring in a dktributed model of computation. Given a connected graph G = (V, E) with IVI = n and maximum degree A such that G is neither a complete graph nor an odd cycle, Brooks’ theorem shows that G can be colored with A colors. We generalize thk as follows: let G – w be A-colored; then, v can be colored by considering the vertices in an O(loga n) radius around v, and this is tight. Using this, we show that A-coloring G is reducible in 0(log3 n/log A) time to (A+ I)-vertex coloring G in a distributed model. This leads to fast distributed algorithms, and a linear–processor NC algorithm, for Acoloring. We also prove a tight Q(diameter(G)) lower bound for A-edge-coloring bipartite graphs, even with unlimited randomness. When A = 2, this implies an Q(n) lower bound for vertex coloring paths and even cycles. A fundamental notion in distributed graph algorithms is that of a cluster decomposition, introduced by Awerbuch, Goldberg, Luby and Plotkin. We improve the existing bounds by showing how to compute a cluster decomposition in O(n”(’(”)) ) time, where e(n) = 1/=. This implies improved bounds for several problems, such as computing a maximal independent set and a (A + I )-coloring. We also show how to compute a A–coloring within the same time bound, using our reduction technique. Next, we show that the problem of doing better than O(n”(’(m))) time for cluster decomposition is self-reducible to graphs of “intermediate” diameter and degree. This pinpoints the weak points of existing cluster decomposition algorithms. *This research was supported in part by NSF PYI award CGR89-96272 with matching support from UPS and Sun Microsystems. Permission to copy without fee ell or part of this material is granted provided that the copiss are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notica and tha title of the publication and its date appear, and notice ie given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otharwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permieaion. 24th ANNUAL ACM STOC 5/92/VICTORIA, B. C., CANADA a 1992 ACM 0-89791-51 2-7192 /000410!581 . ..$1.50