I describe several computational complexity results for planning, some of which identify tractable planning problems. The model of planning, called "propositional planning," is simple—conditions within operators are literals with no variables allowed. The different plan­ ning problems are defined by different restrictions on the preconditions and postconditions of operators. The main results are: Proposi­ tional planning is PSPACE-complete, even if operators are restricted to two positive (non-negated) preconditions and two postconditions, or if operators are restricted to one postcondi­ tion (with any number of preconditions). It is NP-complete if operators are restricted to positive postconditions, even if operators are restricted to one precondition and one posi­ tive postcondition. It is tractable in a few re­ stricted cases, one of which is if each opera­ tor is restricted to positive preconditions and one postcondition. The blocks-world problem, slightly modified, is a subproblem of this re­ stricted planning problem. 1 Introduction If the relationship between intelligence and computation is taken seriously, then intelligence cannot be explained by intractable theories because no intelligent creature has the time to perform intractable computations. Nor can intractable theories provide any guarantees about the performance of engineered systems. Presumably, robots don't have the time to perform intractable com­ putations either. Of course, heuristic theories are a valid approach if partial or approximate solutions are acceptable. How­ ever, my purpose is not to consider the relative merits of heuristic theories and tractable theories. Instead, I shall focus on formulating tractable planning problems. Planning is the reasoning task of finding a sequence of operators that achieve a goal from a given initial state. It is well-known that planning is intractable in general, and that several obstacles stand in the way [Chapman. 1987]. However, there are few results that provide clear dividing lines between tractable and in tractable planning. Below, I clarify a few of these dividing lines by analyzing the computational complexity of a planning problem and a variety of restricted versions, some of which are tractable. The model of planning, called "propositional planning ," is impoverished compared to working planners. It is intended to be a tool for theoretical analysis rather than programming convenience. Preconditions and post-conditions of operators are limited to being literals, i.e., letters or their negations. An initial state then can be represented as a finite set of letters, indicating that the corresponding conditions are initially true, and that all other relevant conditions are initially …