We consider various stochastic models that incorporate the notion of risk-averseness into the standard 2-stage recourse model, and develop novel techniques for solving the algorithmic problems arising in these models. A key notable feature of our work that distinguishes it from work in some other related models, such as the (standard) budget model and the (demand-) robust model, is that we obtain results in the black-box setting, that is, where one is given only sampling access to the underlying distribution. Our first model, which we call the risk-averse budget model, incorporates the notion of risk-averseness via a probabilistic constraint that restricts the probability (according to the underlying distribution) with which the second-stage cost may exceed a given budget B to at most a given input threshold ρ. We also a consider a closely-related model that we call the risk-averse robust model, where we seek to minimize the first-stage cost and the (1 − ρ)-quantile (according to the distribution) of the second-stage cost.
 We obtain approximation algorithms for a variety of combinatorial optimization problems including the set cover, vertex cover, multicut on trees, and facility location problems, in the risk-averse budget and robust models with black-box distributions. Our main contribution is to devise a fully polynomial approximation scheme for solving the LP-relaxations of a wide-variety of risk-averse budgeted problems. Complementing this, we give a simple rounding procedure that shows that one can exploit existing LP-based approximation algorithms for the 2-stage-stochastic and/or deterministic counterpart of the problem to round the fractional solution and obtain an approximation algorithm for the risk-averse problem. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first approximation results for problems involving probabilistic constraints and black-box distributions. A notable feature of our scheme is that it extends easily to handle a significantly richer class of risk-averse problems, where we impose a joint probabilistic budget constraint on different components of the second-stage cost. Consequently, we also obtain approximation algorithms in the setting where we have a joint budget constraint on different portions of the second-stage cost.