Object-oriented system development can integrate problems with traditional CASE tools like those analysis, design and implementation because the same supporting SA/SD are caused by the fact that concepts can be used in all three activities. This conceptually different languages are used in the integration is very suitable for automated support. different models. In object-oriented analysis, design Current object-oriented CASE tools however and implementation the languages are not primarily support editing of diagrams, not the conceptually different, but the very fact that they are transitions between the models. One reason is that different languages makes it difficult to move from different languages are used in the different models. one model to another. In the Mjolner BETA CASE If instead the same object-oriented language is used tool the common abstract language is BETA, which throughout the process the iterative is an object-oriented programming language with a design/implementation cycle can get a high degree of usual textual syntax. A graphical syntax has been automated support: automatic program generation introduced for part of BETA to be able to express from design diagrams, reverse engineering from the analysis and design models graphically. By using programs to design diagrams and even simultaneous the same abstract language in design as well as editing of the design descriptions and the program. implementation it is possible to give tool support to The analysis/design cycle can not get the same high the integration between the models. The different degree of automated support; but hypertext models are simply different presentations (with facilities can help in keeping track of connections different concrete syntaxes) of descriptions in the between the more or less informal descriptions of same underlying abstract language. The design model the application domain and the more formal is a graphical presentation at a high abstraction level descriptions of the system being developed. The without all the confusing programming details. The Mjolner BETA CASE Tool [San92] is an object-implementation model (the program) is a textual oriented CASE tool with such support. The common detailed presentation that includes the design model language is BETA [BETA92]. but now in textual form. A large number of graphical notations for object-oriented analysis and design exist. The Mjalner BETA CASE tool does NOT introduce yet another notation. Instead the message is that the same abstract language should be used for analysis, design and implementation. The same concepts are used in the different models, therefore these models …