A hypertext procedure for browsing through documentary databases is proposed, based upon a global synthetic mapping in addition to a set of local scanning axes. A method is developed for automatic generation of these relevant axes : local component analysis. It consists in tracking the local maxima of a " partial inertia " landscape. First, a " neural " algoriti converging after several passes on the data is presented. Then a deterministic one-pass algorithm is deduced, allowing dynamic data-flow analysis. 1-1-FROM THE QUERY-ANSWER PARADIGM TO THE NAVIGATIONAL PARADIGM : The prevailing approach to information retrieval has been, from the beginning, the query-answer paradigm : from this point of view, a kind of anthropomorphic dialog takes place between the user and the " system " , where the user explains to the system what he is interested in, and the system answers the request. This approach has originated in boolean queries, where the user sets a boolean retrieval equation, and the system processes it so as to " filter " the database content and then restitutes the documents which match best the user's query. The major research trends in the field of information retrieval systems consist in providing the system with a better " understanding " capability : for example, incorporating user models, or natural language processing. But another approach is possible : to provide the user with a better understanding of the database content. It is a common-sense observation indeed ihat actual information retrieval querying is far from anthropomorphic : efficiency in this activity-generally carried out by documentation specialists-depends on a big deal of informal knowledge obtained through over the years. A documentalist is able to provide an overview of what might be found in a particular database. Retrieval efficiency is improved when he or she is aware of the different historical layers in a database, corresponding to different acquisition or indexing policies. In the scope of an automatic system enhanced with graphic capabilities, the attempted goal to incorporate such knowledge into the machine may be impossible to reach before a long time ; however, why not replace this premature metaphor of a dialog between two " beings " and turn to another one : that of providing the user with navigation tools, adequate for prospecting a large, complex and multidimensional " city " ? The problem then becomes one of designing synthetic maps, indicating items ranked along extended and …