INTRODUCTION Our “introduction to computer science” course at Louisiana Tech University provides a breadth-first overview of the entire discipline, much in the spirit of the Denning report [Denning, 89] and Curricula91 [Tucker, 91]. We have developed a sequence of eight laboratory modules to be used in closed lab sessions that help students develop problem solving skills. The range of topics includes applications (spreadsheets, databases), algorithms (data structures, graphics), programming paradigms (imperative, functional), architecture (digital logic design), and theory (finite state automata). We have carefully designed the interface for all labs to have a uniform “look and feel” that is mouse, rather than keyboard, oriented. This paper reports on techniques we have developed that provide problem solving assistance for a wide range of topics as found in our laboratory modules. We have received funding from the National Science Foundation (DUE92543 17) to develop the laboratory environment for this breadth-fwst overview course. The current student profile in the course is quite heterogeneous. About 40-50% of the students are computer science majors, while the remainder are drawn from programs throughout the University. Typically, 30-40% of the students in CS 100 are women, while approximately 20% of the class is composed of ethnic minorities (predominately African American). These studenta represent a wide range of interests and abilities. Most have little or no background in college-level mathematics. We are covering a wide range of topics, but materials are presented at a very intuitive level so that students will appreciate the breadth of computer science as a discipline and gain some valuable knowledge about computer systems. Two other papers provide an overview of the entire project [Kurtz, 94; O’Neal, 95]. This paper concentrates on the development of an intelligent assistant for algorithm development, which we will refer to as the Problem Solving Assistant.