The main goal of the motif finding problem is to detect novel, over-represented unknown signals in a set of sequences (for eg. transcription factor binding sites in a genome). Most widely used algorithms for finding motifs obtain a generative probabilistic representation of these over-represented signals and try to discover profiles that maximize the information content score. Although these profiles form a very powerful representation of the signals, the major difficulty arises from the fact that the best motif corresponds to the global maximum of a non-convex continuous function. Popular algorithms like Expectation Maximization (EM) and Gibbs sampling tend to be very sensitive to the initial guesses and are known to converge to the nearest local maximum very quickly. In order to improve the quality of the results, EM is used with multiple random starts or any other powerful stochastic global methods that might yield promising initial guesses (like projection algorithms). Global methods do not necessarily give initial guesses in the convergence region of the best local maximum but rather suggest that a promising solution is in the neighborhood region. In this paper, we introduce a novel optimization framework that searches the neighborhood regions of the initial alignments in a systematic manner to explore the multiple local optimal solutions. This effective search is achieved by transforming the original optimization problem into its corresponding dynamical system and estimating the practical stability boundary of the local maximum. Our results show that the popularly used EM algorithm often converges to sub-optimal solutions which can be significantly improved by the proposed neighborhood profile search. Based on experiments using both synthetic and real datasets, our method demonstrates significant improvements in the information content scores of the probabilistic models. The proposed method also gives the flexibility in using different local solvers and global methods that work well for some specific datasets. Corresponding Author Chandan K. Reddy Email : ckr6@cornell.edu