Cloud computing offers users the ability to access large pools of computational and storage resources on demand. Multiple commercial clouds already allow businesses to replace, or supplement, privately owned IT assets, alleviating them from the burden of managing and maintaining these facilities. However, there are issues that must be addressed before this vision of utility computing can be fully realized. In existing systems, customers are charged based upon the amount of resources used or reserved, but no guarantees are made regarding the application level performance or quality-of-service (QoS) that the given resources will provide. As cloud providers continue to utilize virtualization technologies in their systems, this can become problematic. In particular, the consolidation of multiple customer applications onto multicore servers introduces performance interference between collocated workloads, significantly impacting application QoS. To address this challenge, we advocate that the cloud should transparently provision additional resources as necessary to achieve the performance that customers would have realized if they were running in isolation. Accordingly, we have developed Q-Clouds, a QoS-aware control framework that tunes resource allocations to mitigate performance interference effects. Q-Clouds uses online feedback to build a multi-input multi-output (MIMO) model that captures performance interference interactions, and uses it to perform closed loop resource management. In addition, we utilize this functionality to allow applications to specify multiple levels of QoS as application Q-states. For such applications, Q-Clouds dynamically provisions underutilized resources to enable elevated QoS levels, thereby improving system efficiency. Experimental evaluations of our solution using benchmark applications illustrate the benefits: performance interference is mitigated completely when feasible, and system utilization is improved by up to 35% using Q-states.