Relational data clustering is a form of relational learning that clusters data using the relational structure of data sets to guide the clustering. Many approaches for relational clustering have been proposed recently. The common assumption in much of this research is that relations have a binding tendency (Neville, Adler, & Jensen 2003; Bhattacharya & Getoor 2007; Taskar, Segal, & Koller 2001; Neville & Jensen 2006). That is, edges are assumed to appear more frequently within clusters than between clusters. This binding quality may be too strong an assumption. Bhattacharya & Getoor (2007) acknowledge that it is possible for a relation to provide “negative evidence,” where the presence of a relation between two objects implies that the objects belong in different clusters. If most of the edges in a relational set provide negative evidence, then this set should be considered to have a separating, rather than a binding, tendency. Consider a social network of university students containing both men and women. If the social network is partitioned by gender, edges for a dating relation will appear most frequently between the clusters. This can be visualized as an approximately bipartite structure between the two clusters that “pushes” them apart. Edges for a roommate relation, on the other hand, will appear most frequently within the clusters. This binding relation can be visualized as a net that “pulls” the objects in a cluster closer together, hence the name “Relational Push-Pull Model.” The prevailing approach to clustering when the relational tendency is not known a priori is stochastic block modeling. Nowicki & Snijders (2001) presented a method for automated learning of stochastic block models in which only object-object relations are observed. Recently, researchers (Handcock, Rafferty, & Tantrum 2007; Tallberg 2005; Anthony & desJardins 2007) have acknowledged that Nowicki & Snijders’ approach ignores a valuable source of information: the attributes associated with the data objects in the relational data set. I propose an extension to Nowicki & Snijders’s model in which relations exist probabilistically as a function of the connected objects’ features. My research has taken a generative approach to the clustering problem: I assume that each object and each relation