The importance of these meeting s of computer and information scientists stems from the fact that, over the years, our common topic oflR has attracted the most analytically gifted and theoretically inclined minds in the whole information business. It was from this particular meeting ground that new and fruitful theories of information seemed most likely to arise. Yet, speaking as an information scientist interested in the development of theory, and while fully acknowledging the advances made by members of this group to information technology, I have to say that I have been disappointed in the theoretical contributions to information science that have emerged from the study of IR. So, in this chapter, I question the continued usefulness of what I call the 'Cranfield paradigm'. I suggest that it has now served its purpose and that it is time we moved on. As briefly as I can, I will try to explain why I think so. But I also outline a possible alternative paradigm to take its place. I would like to think that, in discussions of IR, computer and information scientists meet on level terms. I would like to think that together we were building a bridge between two strong bastions of theory, using IR as a stepping stone, with equal contributions from each side. But all I can see is a one-sided building effort, a cantilever reaching out from CS towards IS but finding little response. That would not matter were it not for my doubts that the cantilever will ever reach firm ground. There is no doubt about the strength of the computer scientists' position. They stand firmly and confidently on a highly sophisticated technology which, in turn, is based on a powerful physical science, while both the technology and the science are closely allied with versatile and highly productive analytical techniques. This powerful combination of forces has already achieved great successes in the world. On the other hand, information science has not yet established for itself any theoretical coherence. It remains largely a com-monsense practical activity heavily dependent on the use of the computer. And many of those who profess information science have in fact migrated, in spirit if not in name, to where the action is-to computer science. So I am critical of both groups-of computer scientists for continuing too long in one direction and of information scientists for not helping them enough. I have to …