This 15th Annual SC conference brings together a worldwide community to celebrate its achievements and envision the future of high performance computing, networking, and data technologies. Our theme, "From Terabytes to Insights," emphasizes the opportunity to use technology to transform an ever-increasing flow of data into the knowledge that will impact education, science, business, government, and every aspect of society.The technical program features an outstanding set of speakers - in plenary, masterworks, and papers -- who address key technical, policy, and real-world application issues of HPC. Tutorials and the Education program provide unparalleled opportunities for learning at and beyond the conference. Panel discussions and Birds of a Feather sessions are opportunities for community interaction and discussion. The Awards program recognizes the highest achievements in our field and at the conference.We feature a record number of exhibits from the world's top technology companies, cutting-edge start-ups, research centers, government labs, and top universities, providing an incomparable view of our country's accomplishments. Posters are integrated into the new 'Academic Village' section of the exhibition. And SCinet 2002, in place for the duration of the conference, is one of the most powerful networks on earth.The IntelliBadge™ demonstration project will link 'smart' sensor technology to on-the-floor computing and visualization resources as a service to attendees. Technical program attendees who participate in IntelliBadge will be able to pinpoint events that meet their needs and interests, locate people with similar interests, and even find restaurants to suit their tastes.We invite you to enjoy colorful, historic Baltimore, a city of great writers (Edgar Allen Poe, H. L. Mencken), great musicians (Eubie Blake, Billie Holiday), and the home of Fort McHenry, where Francis Scott Key penned "The Star Spangled Banner." The city's Inner Harbor is a perfect example of a rejuvenated inner city neighborhood. Conference hotels, restaurants, and entertainment facilities such as Harborplace, the National Aquarium, and the Maryland Science Center are an easy walk from the convention center.So, whether you want to build the world's most powerful supercomputer, develop lasting scientific collaborations, or simply glimpse the future technologies that will shape our world, you have come to the right place - SC2002 in Baltimore!