Advancements in technology have enabled society to become increasingly globalised, both with regard to physical migration, as well as through the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) to enable the maintenance of transnational ties. In particular, transient migration in the area of higher education has seen an increasing number of students migrate overseas for the purpose of their studies. However, research has shown that these international students are often disconnected from their host culture and society, with local-international friendships proving to be uncommon (Baldassar & McKenzie, 2016). Based on interviews with over 200 international students in Australia, Sawir et al. (2008) revealed that two-third of them had suffered or were suffering from loneliness, of which Sawir et al. identified three kinds -personal loneliness from loss of contact with families, social loneliness from the loss of networks, and cultural loneliness from the change in environment. This raises the question of how these students may be better supported, and the international student experience improved upon. Social media has often been positioned as a tool through which users become connected and communities are formed. One of the most popular platforms of social media, Facebook, has become an established part of many lives in modern society. Media and culture have always been interconnected, however, the dominance of the Web in everyday lives means that the role that media plays in cross-cultural communication is more significant than ever and must be researched for a better understanding of this phenomenon. While current research has examined the issues relating to construction of online identities for communication within established social networks, new issues have emerged in relation to collapsed contexts and imagined audiences in today's globalised world, especially as multiple cultures are introduced onto the same platform as a result of migration or relocation. Insufficient research has been done into the influence of technology on transient migration and its potential to support cross-cultural communication. The question thus is how exactly social media may assist transient migrants overcome issues of isolation and loneliness, and provide them with support during their time abroad. This study looks to address the issue of student isolation within host societies by examining how social media may provide spaces for support, self-expression and cross-cultural communication. Through a visual internet ethnographic study, it examines the profile pages of international students on Facebook to better understand their positions in these home and host societies. This research study is supplemented by semi-structured interviews for a thorough examination of international students’ use of social media. As we examine how the Web has developed and changed over the last 30 years, it must be acknowledged that this change cannot be solely attributed to technological advancements, but is also influenced by the actual human users of the Web who participate in it. Web users utilise online tools to produce content of their own, tailoring their online experiences accordingly. While advancements in technology has created a more globalised society, the globalised users within this society have had their own impact on technology. This research looks to create a more in-depth understanding of the ways in which social networking platforms are used by transient migrants to navigate transnational cultural settings. It is aimed at enabling deeper understanding of the complex inter-linkages between cultures, to engender new insights of transnational identities. This is essential to address the global nature of today's society and the role of social media platforms in the spaces they create for transient migrants.