This panel will focus on industry applications related to knowledge graph and showcase how knowledge graph transforms the conventional and unconventional industries to the new era of AI, ranging from innovations in medicine and healthcare, literature search, e-commerce, professional connections, to getting a ride. Panelists are: Senior Software Engineer/Research Scientist at Uber, Co-founder of Tinkerpop, specialized on real-time semantics, RDF streams and graph databases Head of AI at Genentech, passionate about modeling, and currently developing a general medical inference engine that can be applied to a wide variety of areas, from point of care decision support, triage, insurance risk managment to name a few A senior staff engineer/director at Business Platform Unit, Alibaba, leading product knowledge graph (PKG) team and Business Platform AI team. He and his team have built a huge PKG with 10 billion of entities. Data Scientist at Numedii, previously postdoctoral research fellow at Stanford University School of Medicine, developing novel methods to integrate and explore a broad set of biological and clinical data for scientific reproducibility and biomedical discovery. An accomplished technical scientist, innovator and R&D leader in cutting-edge technology research and product development. Proven track record of success (20+ years of successful professional career in leading R&D organizations) in leading rapid technological advancement, innovation, and highly competitive environments. Broad range of skills from initiating research breakthroughs to achieving marketable product development. Renowned expert and technological visionary in the fields of enterprise middleware, cloud computing, data centric computing, workload optimized systems and appliances, business analytics, big data, social media and multimedia, speech and natural language processing. Extended technical leadership in systems design for LinkedIn Economic Graph, Google Search and Google Research. Breadth and depth of expertise in building data systems and platforms. Technical leadership and management of software development in both start-up and large companies. A principal research staff member, and a senior manager at IBM Almaden Research Center. I manage the information management department, working on HTAP (hybrid transactional and analytical processing) systems, large scale machine learning, and natural language querying of data. A team lead and senior scientist at Bloomberg. He holds a PhD in computer science from the University of Amsterdam and has an extensive track record in artificial intelligence, information retrieval, knowledge graphs, natural language processing, and machine learning. Before joining Bloomberg he worked at Yahoo Labs on semantic search at web scale using the Yahoo Knowledge Graph. At Bloomberg he leads the team that is responsible for leveraging knowledge graph technology to drive advanced financial insights.