Our demonstration presents an open-source hardware and software platform which allows non-roboticists 
researchers to conduct machine learning experiments to benchmark algorithms for autonomous exploration 
and active learning. In particular, in addition to showing the general properties of the platform such as 
its modularity and usability, we will demonstrate the online functioning of a particular algorithm which 
allows efficient learning of multiple forward and inverse models and can leverage information from human 
guidance. A first aspect of our demonstration is to illustrate the ease of use of the 3D printed low-cost 
Poppy humanoid robotic platform, that allows non-roboticists to quickly set up and program robotic 
experiments. A second aspect is to show how the Explauto library allows systematic comparison and 
evaluation of active learning and exploration algorithms in sensorimotor spaces, through a Python API to 
select already implemented exploration algorithms. The third idea is to showcase Active Model Babbling, 
an efficient exploration algorithm dynamically choosing which task/goal space to explore and particular 
goals to reach, and integrating social guidance from humans in real time to drive exploration towards 
particular objects or actions. 
 
[Forestier and Oudeyer, 2016] Forestier, S. and Oudeyer, P.-Y. (2016). Modular active curiosity-driven discovery of 
tool use. In 2016 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Daejeon, Korea. 
 
[Lapeyre et al., 2014] Lapeyre, M., Rouanet, P., Grizou, J., Nguyen, S., Depraetre, F., Le Falher, A., and Oudeyer, 
P.-Y. (2014). Poppy Project: Open-Source Fabrication of 3D Printed Humanoid Robot for Science, Education 
and Art. In Digital Intelligence 2014, page 6, Nantes, France. 
 
[Moulin-Frier et al., 2014] Moulin-Frier, C., Rouanet, P., Oudeyer, P.-Y., and others (2014). Explauto: an open- 
source Python library to study autonomous exploration in developmental robotics. In ICDL-Epirob-International 
Conference on Development and Learning, Epirob.