Monolithic SoCs can be decomposed into disparate chiplets that support integration with advanced pack-aging technologies. This concept is promising in reducing the manufacturing cost of large scale SoCs due to the higher yield rate and reusability of chiplets. The chiplets should be designed in a modular manner without holistic system knowledge so that they can be reused in different SoCs. However, the design modularity is a major challenge to the networks-on-chip (NoCs) of chiplets.New deadlocks may occur across both the chiplets and the interposer due to the integration, even if the NoC of each individually designed chiplet is deadlock free. However, conventional deadlock freedom approaches are unsuitable to handle such deadlocks because they require holistic knowledge and violate the modularity. Although there are several modular approaches that specifically target at integration-induced deadlocks, their routing is overly restricted and the injection control incurs additional latency. They also lack flexibility in dynamically changing topologies due to their complex software algorithm and the hard-wired components.In this paper, a key insight on the chiplet integration-induced deadlocks is gained, inspired by which a deadlock recovery framework (named UPP) is proposed. Specifically, it is verified that an integration-induced deadlock always involves a stalled upward packet moving from the interposer to the connected chiplet via the vertical link. Thus, UPP detects a deadlock by discovering the upward packet and recovers the system from deadlock by transmitting the upward packet to its destination. Hybrid flow control mechanisms are proposed to enable the upward packet to bypass the buffers and be transmitted via the normal router datapath. To guarantee the ejection of the upward packet after transmission, a lightweight protocol is proposed to reserve ejection queue entries of the network interface. Experimental results show that while adhering to design modularity, UPP provides an average runtime speedup of 3.1%∼10.3% with an area overhead of less than 4%.