In this era, technologies are fundamental to doing business. The role of technologies in business communications is expanding, and it offers many opportunities. Not only it creates impacts on the internal matters to business, but it also helps to develop social, political, and economic environments. Many technologies internet that is using to promote the business or collaborate with the other platform business. Social media has become one amongst the most-used channel both for private and business communication since the start of this decade, but its various sides might not use within the same manner as individual usage, while for business or company purposes, it becomes a tool to develop the tourism sector. This study aims to know and how the tourism industry business today is in anticipating competition in industry 4.0, how the tourism industry doing business communication, and the media tourism industry to promote business. The tourism industry is the world's largest economic sector, which contributes 10,4% to global GDP. Three hundred thirteen million jobs or 1/10 jobs in the world supported by the travel and tourism industry, this is equal to 9,9 % of global employment and 1/5 of all global net jobs created in last decade have been within the travel and tourism sector (World and Tourism Council,2018 p.3). The tourism industry is an industry that has a positive impact on improving the economy of countries. In addition to creating employment in the tertiary sector, the tourism industry often promotes growth in the primary and secondary industries regarded as the multiplier effect. Increasing the tourism industry will create new entrepreneurs and a new workforce, and often see as a promotion media used by the tourism industry. To achieve these objectives, the writers use a qualitative methodology by collecting the data from primer and secondary data. This research addressed how the tourism industry can exist in industry 4.0 by using the key reveal determinants found in the