Near-data processing (NDP) mitigates the data movement bottleneck in modern computing systems by performing computation close to where the data resides. Solid-state drives (SSDs) are well suited for NDP because they: (1) store large application datasets that exceed main memory capacity, and (2) contain multiple heterogeneous computation resources, e.g., general-purpose embedded cores in the SSD controller, DRAM chips, and NAND flash chips, which enable three NDP paradigms: in-storage processing (ISP), processing using DRAM in the SSD (PuD-SSD), and in-flash processing (IFP). These resources offer massive internal parallelism and enable in-place computation, which reduces data movement across the memory hierarchy. A large body of prior SSD-based NDP techniques operate in isolation, mapping computations to only one or two NDP paradigms (i.e., ISP, PuD-SSD, or IFP) within the SSD. These techniques (1) are tailored to specific workloads or kernels, (2) do not offload computations across all three NDP paradigms in the SSD and thus fail to exploit the full computational potential of an SSD, and (3) lack programmer-transparency, often requiring significant manual effort to identify offloadable code regions and map them to the SSD computation resources, which limits their general applicability and ease of deployment. While several prior works propose techniques to partition computation between the host and near-memory accelerators, adapting these techniques to SSDs offers limited benefits because they (1) ignore the heterogeneity of the SSD computation resources, and (2) make offloading decisions based on limited factors such as bandwidth utilization, data movement cost, or memory intensity, while ignoring key factors such as resource utilization. We propose Conduit, a general-purpose, programmertransparent NDP framework for SSDs that accelerates a broad range of workloads by leveraging available SSD computation resources. Conduit operates in two stages. At compile time, Conduit executes a custom compiler (e.g., LLVM) pass that (i) vectorizes suitable application code segments into single-instruction multiple-data (SIMD) operations that align with the SSD's page layout, and (ii) embeds metadata (e.g., operation type, operand sizes) into the vectorized instructions to guide runtime offloading decisions. At runtime, within the SSD, Conduit performs instruction-granularity offloading by evaluating six key application and system features (e.g., operation type, computation resource utilization, data dependence delay), and uses a cost function to select the most suitable SSD computation resource to execute each vectorized instruction. We evaluate Conduit and two prior NDP offloading techniques using an in-house event-driven SSD simulator on six data-intensive applications (e.g., large language model inference and training, encryption). Conduit outperforms the best-performing prior offloading policy by $1.8 \times$ and reduces energy consumption by 46 %, with small latency and storage overheads, and no additional hardware cost.