Decision makers in the real world usually face multiple risky choice problems. For instance, an investor might need to take care of her investment accounts simultaneously in different financial markets, including stocks, bonds, and cryptocurrencies. One implicit assumption of the long-standing focus on single choice problems in economics is that agents can rationally aggregate and assess risks and consequences in multiple sources. However, aggregating risks from multiple sources can be complex and demanding, and decision makers usually adopt heuristics, such as narrow bracketing and correlation neglect, to simplify the decision process. Narrow bracketing describes the situation where a decision maker faced with multiple choice problems tends to choose an option in each decision without full regard to other decisions. Correlation neglect means that the decision maker might ignore the interdependence of risks from different sources. Both heuristics are well-documented in experiments and behavioral economics, but have received inadequate attention in the choice-theoretic literature. One possible reason is that they are typically interpreted as exotic behavioral or "irrational" biases and supposed to deviate drastically from the standard framework. This paper axiomatically characterizes the two heuristics by introducing an intuitive relaxation of the independence axiom in the standard von Neumann-Morgenstern expected utility framework. The representation theorem allows for either narrow bracketing, or correlation neglect, or both of them, or none of them. This behavioral foundation suggests that the two heuristics are no more "irrational'' than other commonly accepted non-EU theories like certainty effect and reference dependence, and hence deserve more attention in the future. The flexibility of our framework allows for applications in various choice domains. First, my model can accommodate the experimental evidence on narrow bracketing, where subjects tend to violate first-order stochastic dominance when making choices in simultaneous and independent monetary gambles. Second, in environments with background risk, I show how the model can explain non-trivial risk aversion over small gambles. Finally, in intertemporal choices, I show that my framework unifies three commonly used and seemingly distinct models of time preferences in the literature. This is ex-ante surprising since the analysis is based solely on simplifying heuristics to deal with multi-source risk and contains no normative properties required in each of the three models. Then, I propose a novel class of time preferences that can simultaneously satisfy indifference to time resolution of uncertainty, dynamic consistency and separation of time and risk preferences. This provides an alternative solution to the impossibility result in [3]. One specification of my new model shares the same predictions and explanatory power as [1] in macroeconomics and finance applications, without being subject to the recent critiques in [2].