Clouds and massive-scale computing infrastructures are starting to dominate computing and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Major cloud operators are now comprising millions of cores hosting substantial fractions of corporate and government IT infrastructure. CCSW is the world's premier forum bringing together researchers and practitioners in all security aspects of cloud-centric and outsourced computing, including: Side channel attacks; Practical cryptographic protocols for cloud security; Secure cloud resource virtualization mechanisms; Secure data management outsourcing (e.g., database as a service); Practical privacy and integrity mechanisms for outsourcing; Foundations of cloud-centric threat models; Secure computation outsourcing; Remote attestation mechanisms in clouds; Sandboxing and VM-based enforcements; Trust and policy management in clouds; Secure identity management mechanisms; New cloud-aware web service security paradigms and mechanisms; Cloud-centric regulatory compliance issues and mechanisms; Business and security risk models and clouds; Cost and usability models and their interaction with security in clouds; Scalability of security in global-size clouds; Trusted computing technology and clouds; Binary analysis of software for remote attestation and cloud protection; Network security (DOS, IDS etc.) mechanisms for cloud contexts; Security for emerging cloud programming models; Energy/cost/efficiency of security in clouds; Machine learning for cloud protection CCSW especially encourages novel paradigms and controversial ideas that are not on the above list. The workshop has historically acted as a fertile ground for creative debate and interaction in security-sensitive areas of computing impacted by clouds. This year marked the 11th anniversary of CCSW. In the past decade, CCSW has had a significant impact in our research community. As of August 2019, in the Google Scholar Metrics entry for ACM CCS (which encompasses CCSW), 20% of the top 20 cited papers come from CCSW. One way to look at it is that authors are as likely or perhaps more likely to have a top-20 paper publishing in CCSW than in CCS! This year, CCSW received 40 submissions out of which 12 full papers (30%) and 5 blitz abstracts were accepted.