For our blur kernel measurements, we use a Canon EOS 5D Mark IV DSLR camera equipped with SIGMA Art 50mm f /1.4 lens, using the widest aperture (i.e., N = 1.4). To generate point-light patterns, we display white dot patterns with black background on a large LED display (Dell P4317Q), place the camera 2 m away from the display, and capture the dot pattern on the display (see Figure 1). In Figure 2 of the main paper, we show how kernels change their shape depending on the focus plane depth of a point source. In this experiment, we fix the depth of the point source and change the focus depth of the lens instead so that we can avoid the source-camera registration problem. Note that changing the depth of a source is virtually equivalent to changing the focus position of optics. All dual-pixel images in the first column of Figure 2 are captured in a dark room to minimize the effect of ambient illumination. We then separate the left and right pairs of the dual-pixel images by Canon’s official software (Digital Photo Professional 4) using its Dual Pixel RAW Optimizer. We fix the same camera setup and environment for all captures, then vary the focus plane depth by controlling the lens’ focus distance. Figure 2 shows the results. Note that we convert three color channels into a gray channel and tonemap it for better visualization. The result shows that the blur kernel is isotropic when the pixels are gathered from all diodes (the second column in Figure 2), whereas it is split into two reflection-symmetric anisotropic kernels (the third and fourth columns in Figure 2) when collected separately. In addition, the reflectionsymmetric kernels get inverted based on the in-focus plane of depth. This blur kernel experiment shows that our model in the main paper supports the optical characteristic of dualpixel imaging. Figure 1. Our blur kernel experiment setup. We conduct all the experiments in a dark room. We display a dot pattern on a large display and place a DSLR at the right angle in front of the display.