Quantum noise is the key challenge in Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) computers. Previous work for mitigating noise has primarily focused on gate-level or pulse-level noise-adaptive compilation. However, limited research has explored a higher level of optimization by making the quantum circuits themselves resilient to noise.In this paper, we propose QuantumNAS, a comprehensive framework for noise-adaptive co-search of the variational circuit and qubit mapping. Variational quantum circuits are a promising approach for constructing quantum neural networks for machine learning and variational ansatzes for quantum simulation. However, finding the best variational circuit and its optimal parameters is challenging due to the large design space and parameter training cost. We propose to decouple the circuit search from parameter training by introducing a novel SuperCircuit. The SuperCircuit is constructed with multiple layers of pre-defined parameterized gates (e.g., U3 and CU3) and trained by iteratively sampling and updating the parameter subsets (SubCircuits) of it. It provides an accurate estimation of SubCircuits performance trained from scratch. Then we perform an evolutionary co-search of SubCircuit and its qubit mapping. The SubCircuit performance is estimated with parameters inherited from SuperCircuit and simulated with real device noise models. Finally, we perform iterative gate pruning and finetuning to remove redundant gates in a fine-grained manner.Extensively evaluated with 12 quantum machine learning (QML) and variational quantum eigensolver (VQE) benchmarks on 14 quantum computers, QuantumNAS significantly outperforms noise-unaware search, human, random, and existing noise-adaptive qubit mapping baselines. For QML tasks, QuantumNAS is the first to demonstrate over 95% 2-class, 85% 4-class, and 32% 10-class classification accuracy on real quantum computers. It also achieves the lowest eigenvalue for VQE tasks on H2, H2O, LiH, CH4, BeH2 compared with UCCSD baselines. We also open-source the TorchQuantum library for fast training of parameterized quantum circuits to facilitate future research.