It is my great pleasure to welcome you to the 23rd International World Wide Web Conference, WWW 2014. 
 
Since its inception in 1994, the International World Wide Web Conference (WWW) has become the premier forum in advancing Web technologies, introducing these technologies to the industry and to users, and promoting the development of Web standards. WWW is organized by the International World Wide Web Conference Steering Committee (IW3C2) in collaboration with local conference organizers of the host country. 
 
This year we have the privilege of hosting WWW in Seoul, Korea for the very first time. International delegates can experience the advanced information technologies of Korea as well as both the contemporary culture and historical traditions of Seoul, which has been the capital city of Korea for the past six hundred years. I hope you are pleased, as I am, with the quality of this years program. There are 3 keynote speeches by world-class experts. The Research track presents 84 high quality papers; 107 posters of the Poster track report concise summaries of research; the Demo track shows 28 interesting demos; the Ph.D. Symposium track reports 11 papers of doctoral students; the Developers track presents 5 papers and 7 speeches focused on development experiences; the Industry track consists of 12 fascinating speeches from prominent industry leaders; the Web Science track presents 20 papers and 15 posters on novel interdisciplinary research; the W3C track is composed of sessions on the latest Web standards and emerging technologies; the Panel program consists of a plenary panel on the future of the Web and 3 panels on current issues. In addition to the tracks and special programs, workshops and tutorials are organized to report on-going works and to provide in-depth knowledge on important subjects, respectively; 19 workshops are organized to present 128 papers and provide 25 invited speeches; 13 tutorials are organized as lectures by experts. The content of the program is contained in the proceedings and the companion proceedings for your future reference.