On behalf of the ASPLOS organizing committee, we are very pleased to welcome you to Istanbul, Turkey, for the 20th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-XX) on March 14-18, 2015. Istanbul is a jewel of a city, with its unique historical accumulation and splendid natural beauty, blended into a modern metropolis. Each civilization that has made Istanbul its home has left its mark in sublime and splendid ways, and the result is a city that gives one the feeling of universal history at every step from the Roman era to the Byzantine and Ottoman eras. 
 
The 2015 conference saw a record 287 submissions (compared to 217 in 2014, an increase of 32%), with a total of 1,018 paper authors from 287 institutions spread across at least 22 countries and spanning 5 continents: a clear indication that our community is growing, and that ASPLOS is the premier venue of choice for disseminating high quality interdisciplinary work. 
 
There was a wide diversity in topics, ranging from quantum computing to human computer interaction, with the most popular being scheduling and resource management, memory systems, power/energy/thermal management, and multicore and heterogeneous architectures. 97 papers self-identified as relating to architecture, 72 to parallelism, 70 to operating systems, 51 to programming models and languages, and 34 to compiler optimizations. 
 
In addition to the 48 accepted papers, the conference includes two invited keynote speeches. Edward Lee from the University of California at Berkeley will talk about incorporating time into the semantics of programs in support of cyber-physical systems. Guruduth Banavar from IBM will give a talk on the capabilities of and the challenges in realizing cognitive computing. We will maintain the tradition of past ASPLOS conferences in convening a Wild and Crazy Ideas (WACI) session, organized by John Criswell, Arrvindh Shriraman, and Emmett Witchel, and a debate, organized by Dan Tsafrir. Lightning sessions each morning will provide a quick introduction to the key ideas that will be presented in the talks that day. New this year is the ASPLOS-ACM Student Research Competition, which will allow a showcase for student research via poster presentations during the poster session. 
 
We hope you enjoy reading the papers in these proceedings and continue to submit your interdisciplinary work to ASPLOS. The conference provides a unique opportunity for stimulating interaction with experts across a diverse range of subdisciplines and we look forward to seeing many of you at the conference.