It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 9th ACM International Workshop on Data Warehousing and OLAP -- DOLAP'06. Continuing the tradition of previous successful DOLAP workshops, the DOLAP 2006 workshop provides an international forum where both researchers and practitioners in the field of Data Warehousing and OLAP can share their findings in theoretical foundations, current methodologies, and practical experiences.The mission of DOLAP is to explore novel research directions and emerging application domains in the areas of data warehousing and OLAP. Although, research in data warehousing and OLAP has produced important technologies for the design, management and use of information systems for decision support, there are still problems and research opportunities in the area. Much of the interest and success in this area can be attributed to the need for software and tools to improve data management and analysis given the large amounts of information that are being accumulated in corporate as well as scientific databases. Nevertheless, the high maturity of these technologies as well as new data needs or applications not only demand more capacity or storing necessities, but also new methods, models, techniques or architectures to satisfy these new needs. Some of the hot topics in data warehouse research include novel query mechanisms (through approximate data structures or approximation techniques), techniques for the engineering of the data warehouse construction and more powerful architectures to incorporate novel kinds of data and applications like, web, streaming, GIS, or biomedical data, along with orthogonal considerations like security or data quality control.The call for papers attracted 26 submissions from Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. The program committee accepted 12 papers that can be thematically grouped by the three major phases of a data warehouse lifecycle: design, construction and exploitation of a data warehouse. Starting from the exploitation of the data warehouse, the accepted papers reflect the most recent trends in the research community and present novel data mining and aggregation techniques -- quite a bit far from the traditional OLAP style of warehouse querying. All three papers on data warehouse construction involve real world cases and build upon them to provide novel design methods and vision for data warehouse design and construction. The papers in the area of data warehouse design, at the same time, explore hard topics such as ETL, indexing, view selection and spatial warehousing, which persist in attracting the interest of the research community. Finally, since DOLAP is the premier venue for data warehouse research, the program had to include a brush-stroke of vision: to this end, the program hosts a paper on research directions for the field of data warehouse design as well as a keynote talk on the formal specification and optimization of ETL scenarios, by Prof. Timos Sellis.