Welcome to this year's Onward! Essays. Onward! is about the exploration of new ideas in software development and programming languages, a chance to investigate new lines of reasoning through writing. 
 
The essay is a notable format, and one that can be challenging to those who are not used to its conventions. It is quite distinct from the traditional research paper; while a research paper reports back on an investigation that its authors have already completed, an essay invites the reader to examine new ideas alongside its author, and then propels the reader forward. The best essays build to the presentation of a full-grown idea, yet plant seeds along the way that may continue to germinate in the reader's mind long after the closing paragraph. 
 
The Program Committee and I recognize that this format is an unusual one for most of our authors, and are extremely grateful to all those who took the time and trouble to submit their work. Additionally, I extend my personal thanks to all the authors, as well as to the Program Committee members, who provided constructive feedback in the hopes of increasing these essays' fruitfulness. We are proud to present three of them here. 
Meurig Beynon will present "Realising Software Development as a Lived Experience," in which he argues for an approach to software development rooted in the personal experiences of the developer. 
Andrea Janes and Giancarlo Succi will present "The Dark Side of Agile Software Development," in which they examine the Gartner Hype Cycle and other social phenomena that can threaten useful development paradigms. 
Richard Gabriel will present "The Structure of a Programming Language Revolution," in which he discusses the relationship between engineering and science, and subscribes to incommensurability. 
 
 
 
It is our fervent hope that you will take the arguments laid out in these writings and cultivate them: ponder, discuss, rework, and revisit them throughout the broader conference. Apply the lines of reasoning employed here to other subject matter, and see if they still hold up. Ask yourselves and your colleagues where you would take these ideas next. Then take them -- Onward!