Welcome to the 28th ACM International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS), the oldest and longest running conference on high-performance computing. ICS is a premier forum for researchers to present and discuss latest results and perspectives on the state-of-the-art in supercomputing with their colleagues. ICS 2014 continues the strong focus on excellent technical presentations, motivating keynote addresses, and a small collection of carefully selected workshops and tutorials. The conference follows a cycle of four years visiting twice the United States, once Europe and Asia. This year ICS is taking place in Munich, the center of Bavaria in Germany. The venue is the Bavarian Academy of Sciences with a long tradition going back to 1759. The Academy is running the Leibniz Supercomputer Centre with its 3 Petaflops SuperMUC system. 
 
The success of ICS 2014 is the result of an outstanding team of people. We want to thank the organizing committee at Technische Universitat Munchen and the Leibniz Supercomputer Centre for their dedication in setting up and running the conference. The excellent technical program was brought together by the PC chair Per Stenstrom and the area co-chairs Barton P. Miller, Lawrence Rauchwerger and Martin Schulz. Thanks to the huge reviewing effort of the program committee and the extended review committee, 34 excellent papers were selected from over 160 submissions. We would also like to thank the workshops chair Bernd Mohr, the tutorials chair Michael Bader and the poster chair Erwin Laure for broadening the scope of ICS 2014 with additional activities. The publicity chair Beniamino Di Martino put a lot of effort into attracting submissions and participants to the conference. Shajulin Benedict cooperated with ACM-Sheridan Proceedings Service in the publication of the proceedings. Josef Weidendorfer, Herbert Huber and Carsten Trinitis worked closely together in the local organization team taking care of the local logistics, the sponsoring and the financial accounting. Finally, we thank the steering committee and especially its chair Alex Veidenbaum for giving us the opportunity to run this prestigious conference in Munich. 
 
The continued sponsorship of ACM SIGARCH for ICS is the basis for 28 events of this conference series and for even more to come. We also want to thank the industrial sponsors of this year's conference enabling us to have enjoyable and fruitful days in Munich. 
 
Finally, our thanks go to all the authors of papers submitted to the conference for taking the effort in presenting their latest research results. Without their contributions, this conference would not be such a stimulating meeting.