Software is nowadays present in every part of our daily lives, in our cars, mobile phones, microwave ovens, washing machines, and so on. If software fails, sometimes even our lives may be threatened. Therefore, the quality of software is an important issue. Software quality assurance is a crucial cross-cutting activity during software development in order to guarantee proper quality. Software testing is one of the most prominent analytical activities thereof. The Third International Workshop on Software Quality Assurance (SOQUA 2006) is devoted to the important field of software quality assurance, and in particular to software testing.SOQUA 2004 and SOQUA 2005 were co-located with the German computer science conference Net.ObjectDays. Due to the success of both workshops, we put in our efforts to make this event more international. Therefore, SOQUA 2006 is colocated with ACM SIGSOFT 2006 / FSE 14 which takes place in Portland, Oregon. The call for papers attracted 24 submissions from 13 countries. This documents the increasing popularity and acceptance of SOQUA as a forum in the software quality assurance and software testing community.Each of the submitted papers was reviewed by at least three members of the program committee, and it appeared that numerous papers were of high quality. 9 full papers and 1 short paper were eventually selected. They cover 7 countries over 4 continents.Although software testing remains the topic covered by a majority of papers, 6 of the 7 themes identified in the original SOQUA call for papers are actually addressed by the selected papers, namely software testing, formal methods, metrics for software quality assurance, software quality assurance and its relation to knowledge management, software quality assurance and agile processes, as well as processes and their relation to software quality assurance. This shows that the workshop brings together researchers with various backgrounds and we expect that it will result in fruitful interactions.