CHI 2016 is the premier world-wide conference for Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and this year took place in the heart of Silicon Valley, San Jose, California. The Proceedings and Extended Abstracts represent today's most innovative, novel and creative work in HCI. These Proceedings and Abstracts have added over one-thousand documents in the ACM Digital Library. Across all tracks, CHI received nearly 5000 submissions and accepted over 1000 that can be seen today. These include almost 600 rigorously reviewed papers and notes selected from over 2200 submissions. These Proceedings and Abstracts also document two days of workshops, symposia and meetings involving over 800 participants, a record number for CHI conferences. 
 
The CHI 2016 conference includes two days of focused workshops and four days of technical content, including CHI's prestigious technical program, with 16 parallel sessions of rigorously reviewed research Papers, engaging Panels, Case Studies and Special Interest Groups (SIGs), Conference highlights also include student research, design, and game competitions, and last-minute SIGs for discussing current topics. The popular alt.chi forum enters its eleventh year of provocation within the HCI community. The conference also showcases Interactivity and Interactivity Research Demos, which are hands-on demonstrations of the best in technology and innovation. And we're particularly proud this year to include documents from our new Art Exhibition, held at the Works/San Jose Gallery in conjunction with the CHI conference. 
 
We began our conference planning process with three core ideas: "CHI in Silicon Valley": emphasizing local engagement in this vibrant community, "#chiforgood": HCI in the community, both during the workshop time and at appropriate points during the conference, and a "More Humane Conference and Planning Process": lots of transparency, early planning, no surprises, data-driven decisions and taking into account the importance of families, work/life balance, and the like. 
 
From this, the overall theme of the conference emerged, #chi4good: addressing issues of social good through the innovation and creativity of the CHI community. To this end we held a Day of Service on the Saturday before the conference with hundreds of CHI attendees working on projects for non-profit and area arts organizations, and we have continued that theme throughout the conference by hosting the Diversity and Inclusion Lunch, brought childcare back to the conference for the first time in many years, and introduced the lunch@chi program to facilitate small group lunches on the first day of the conference. We've introduced CHI's first Diversity & Inclusion Statement, and our keynote speakers, represent the vibrancy, diversity and excitement of the wide field of HCI with particular emphasis on #chi4good. This year's speakers were chosen from among crowd-sourced suggestions from the CHI community and they are: Dayo Olopade, (Journalist and author of The Bright Continent); Kimberly Bryant (Founder, Black Girls Code), in conversation with Sarah Guthals, (Co-Founder of ThoughtSTEM); Marissa Meyer (President & CEO of Yahoo), in conversation with Terry Winograd (Professor Emeritus, Stanford University); Vishal Sikka (CEO of Infosys), in conversation with computing pioneer Alan Kay (Viewpoints Research Institute); and Salman Khan (founder, Khan Academy). 
 
With careful consultation from the community, we have enhanced the CHI conference experience from submission and review processes, to more participation possibilities at the conference. Peer-reviewed papers have more space for references and will receive a wider range of better-matched reviews. There are more curated venues and more input into the selection of keynote speakers.