It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the first "Business Impact of Process Improvements" (BIPI-2008) workshop. The workshop is held in conjunction with the ICSE-2008 and addresses the software engineering community -- specifically those who care for business impact and business value of changes and investments. 
 
The topic of this workshop is achieving tangible and sustainable business impact from process improvements. The focus is on approaches that are both practical and quantifiable. The kinds of process improvements addressed include, but are not limited to, the introduction of iterative, agile or "lean" approaches, improved requirements engineering, risk management, usage of process improvement reference frameworks, and improved quality control and assurance. The business impact should be illustrated through either increasing the value of what is delivered to the customer or reducing the cost (for example by reduction of rework effort). The audience will share experiences how to reliably set-up, measure and achieve business-oriented process improvements in order to increase return on investment in software engineering. 
 
The goal of the "Business Impact of Process Improvements" (BIPI) workshop is to establish a forum where practical and quantifiable value in process improvement is reviewed and consolidated to advance software engineering improvement programs. Too often, there is too little connection to the impact for the business and in such a way that the recommended approaches are able to be applied in practice. We explicitly strive to serve as an appropriate forum for bridging the academic, research, business, and industrial practice communities. 
 
We hope that you will find this program interesting, thought-provoking, and especially give you useful ideas on measuring and improving the business impact of many kinds of process improvements. We hope also that through this workshop you had a valuable opportunity to share ideas with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world on this important topic.