An autonomous, outdoor, robot design competition, named the "Penn State Abington Mini Grand Challenge," was developed at the Penn State Abington campus to promote advances in robot technology. Robots must navigate unmarked paths, take off-road detours, and entertain spectators. The contest encourages the use of low-cost robot platforms and is suitable for research and education. An example of a low-cost robot platform has been designed to facilitate student participation in the contest. The robot platform consists of a modified electric car robot base, servo-controlled steering and motor drive, vision system, GPS, sonar, and a text-to-speech engine with a speaker for interaction with the contest spectators. The expected applications and outcomes of the robot platform and Mini Grand Challenge include curriculum enhancement, increased interest in undergraduate research, recruitment and retention, and K-12 outreach. Introduction The Abington Mini Grand Challenge requires autonomous robots (traveling at a speed between 2 and 5 mph) to follow unmarked sections of 8-foot wide pathways throughout the campus, and take offroad detours. Robots are also encouraged to interact with, and entertain, spectators who may be present observing the robots. The contest is partly inspired by the DARPA Grand Challenge [1], and promotes advances in robot technology. However, the availability of a low-cost hardware and software platform will allow participants in the Mini Grand Challenge to focus on vision, navigation, and intelligent software solutions and reduce overall development and operation costs. A low-cost, autonomous, outdoor mobile robot platform was designed to facilitate student participation in the Penn State Abington Mini Grand Challenge contest during the spring of 2005. The robot platform consists of a modified PowerWheelsTM robot base, servo-controlled steering and drive, vision system, GPS interface, sonar, and text-to-speech engine with a speaker for interaction with the contest spectators. Control of the robot is accomplished by a laptop running Windows XP operating system, and MATLABTM software. This strategy has allowed lower-division undergraduate students to participate in the challenge at a level that would be impractical in the past. In our case, the ability to prototype and deploy algorithms directly in the MATLAB environment is a key element to this design solution. Figure 1: Block Diagram of Robot System USB Camera GPS (Garmin eTrex) Sonar HandyBoard Controller Speaker (30-watt) Steering Control Drive Motor Speed/Dir Control Laptop Computer Windows XP OS MATLAB