In screening and evaluating the background of applicants for careers in data processing, a considerable emphasis is placed on the ability of the applicant to work as a member of a team. This is because many required skills in data processing, specifically in the commercial environment, can only be obtained through individual work as a member of a team. This paper focuses on a method for simulating the business data processing environment through class project teams. The simulation is demonstrated through a discussion of the process of selecting the teams and projects, the frequent problems faced by team members, the background knowledge required, and the methods used in evaluating the projects.The benefits that can be derived by taking the programming team approach to the design and implementation of computer systems have been widely discussed in the literature [1, 2, 3]. This approach is receiving increasing attention in the commercial environment [4]. In addition, several new system design techniques [5, 6, 7, 8, 9] are becoming increasingly popular and the ideas of structured programming [10, 11, 12] are widely known. We feel, therefore, that an important part of the preparation for a career in information processing should include participation as a member of a programming and design team.In this paper we demonstrate the methods that we have used to create a project team environment in the classroom. These methods are based on our commercial experience and experience gained from conducting such classes for a combined total of seven semesters. Overall, the projects resulting from these team efforts have been of high quality and the students' reactions have been very favorable. The students from these courses that sought careers in data processing were able to find jobs rapidly. They have been highly successful in their careers.In interviews with our graduates they indicated that the experiences they gained from the project team classes were main factors in obtaining employment and the success they achieved in their work.