As we turn the corner into the new century, design is increasingly focused on single integrated circuit implementations of complete systems. Similar to alchemy in the middle ages, the design of a complex system onto an IC is an art and possibly an illusion understood by a very few. It is a complex search for an optimal answer which requires understanding the application, the system domain, digital function and control, and the fundamentals of circuits and IC fabrication technology. Due to the complexity of standards and processing, no one company understands or owns all of the needed technologies.
This plenary panel draws on leaders from companies that are successfully addressing embedded system design problems in the new millennium. The panelists will discuss what they perceive as the biggest problems today and down the road, and outline solutions they will have a part in bringing about. They will collectively address the challenges of authoring and integrating major components such as microprocessors, memory, custom digital logic and software into a single design. Questions that arise in the design of complex embedded systems are:How does one refine an application problem to a solution in the face of IC technology limitations? Are there that many tall, thin designers or are they not really needed?
Do they face the same DSM issues as custom designers: problems induced by the physics of the sub-micron structures and by the shear number of components?
How does one trade-off the power savings and performance gains of custom hardware with the flexibility, reusability, and time-to-market advantages of programmable solutions?
 Will growing design cost and shrinking time to market and market lifetime windows force everything to be implemented on a reusable architectural platform?
Can anything significant we have learned from board/subsystem design be carried down to embedded system on a chip design?
How do we achieve and exploit the most transistors? Homogeneous parallelism or heterogeneous 'board-on-a-chip'? Does it matter?

The group will compare the challenges they have faced in implementing embedded systems as well as the solutions that have come to fruition. They will consider whether complex embedded system-on-a-chip design is the dawn of a new industry, the natural progression of the existing semiconductor integrated circuit market, or the seemingly unreachable goal of turning lead into gold.