CONFER is used by a variety of organizations which have nodirect contact with any MTS site (the CONFER host computer system).In many cases, the main contact of the CONFER user is with thethird party vendor or consultant who is supporting the networkingeffort. Several problems arise when the third party relationship isnot broadened to include the institutional consulting anddocumentation efforts. Such problems include:1. Overload on thetime of the third-party consultant.2. Production of customdocumentation which parallels the institutional documentation.3.User perceptions that they are not "ready" for institutionaldocumentation.4. Development of abbreviated cognitive maps of thesystem and its user network.5. Users exchange superstitious viewsof how the system works.While it is not yet clear that theabsorption of third-party, mediated networks will solve suchproblems, it is an obvious first step to a solution.
MTS Help Facility
A version of CONFER is tentatively planned for use as theprincipal Help Facility at WSU. A subset of CONFER capabilitieswill be employed to decrease demands on the system.
Features of the Help Facility will include agenda stringsearches, execution of computer assisted instruction lessons fromwithin tbe CONFERence, a "suggestion box" facility, and usermodelling features intended to decrease user frustration andmaximize efficiency. Existing help files will be called from theHelp Facility to increase the redundancy of available help to theuser.
The agenda used will be multi-dimensional, allowing the user tosearch for help within subject areas, type of information and skilllevel. For example, the user would be able to view all items whichserve as tutorials on statistical packages with the CONFER command:AGENDA TUTORIALS+STATISTICS. Similarly, the user will be able tosearch item descriptors or text for character strings, such asusing WHICH "SPSS" to locate all items dealing with SPSS.
Requests for help will be sent directly to various CSCdepartments, and responded to either via CONFER or telephone. Usersuggestions and requests will be screened on a continuing basis byCSC staff, and changes to the information contained in each itemwill be made as a result of these suggestions. Materials developedby users will be solicited for inclusion in the Help Facility.