Object allocation and deallocation data gathered for the Cedar system on Xerox Dorados supports the weak generational hypothesis! newly-created objects have a much lower survival rate than objects that are older. The survivors at all collections thresholds are highly organized; large clusters of objects are allocated at roughly the same time, and live for roughly the same length of time. By cleverly selecting representatives from the clusters and examining the reachability of these key objects more frequently than the cluster itself, the storage system can use the death of these key objects to find good opportunities to collect the clusters they represent. 1 The Generational Hypotheses Some observations of the relative lifetimes of newlycreated objects and older objects leads to the weak generational hypothesis [Han77]. This hypothesis seems to hold across a wide variety of systems: newly-created objects have a ,much lower survival rate than objects that are older. This led researchers to develop storage management systems Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. @ 1991 ACM 89791-446.5/9110010/0033...$1.50 based on this hypothesis, the time-based generational collectors iLH83, Moo84, Ung84]. The designs of these are actually based on a leap of faith to the strong generational hypothesis: even if the objects in question are not newly-created, the relatively younger objects have a lower survival rate than the relatively older objects. These collectors allow many generations and segregate objects into multiple classes by age, not just “new” and “old.” As objects age, they are promoted from one generation to the next, and at some point they may be “tenured” in a generation where the time-based collector will never attempt to collect them.