A method of simulation on an electronic computer la described, In which a set of formalised rallies of parameters is flsad in correspondence to a certain research, object. The following computer programs are constructed for the composition of song melodies, harmonization of melodies analysis of harmonizations (this programme aots as an examiner) and composition of musical reflations. The latter realises a component of heuristic activity transposition of the invariant form (structure) to different contents. These programs oonfixm the hypotheses concerning certain laws used by mam in oreatire work untuitiraly. To Make an objeotive eraluation of machine music and compare it with composer music a special experiment has been conducted by a method which eliminates the influence of the psychological set (bias) of the experts. Examples of computer melodies are giren in a musical notation. 8 1. In the study of certain psychological object the following problem arises s to what extent the knowledge of or Information on the object, produced consciously (e.g. obtained in a psychological experiment) is relevant to the understanding of this object. In other words, is this knowledge sufficient to imitate the objeot? It is not always that in hie heuris-tic aetirity man uses only consciously-aroduced parameters. When dealing with fflcult problems he introduces subconsciously additional factors that he cannot be aware of. although they often play an essential role. Xlectronic-conputer simulation is a reliable method of rerifying hypotheses concerning laws goreznlng research object. Simulation is reproduction or imitation of certain aspects of the objeot under study,' that is those aspects that interest the researcher. In computer simulation the machine program includes regularities obtained in analysis of experimental data. The computer, naturally does not use anything abore that, anything that is subconscious. Simulation is carried out in three stagest 1) On analysis of the object the laws of its structure are found out. Besides , the laws and principles of the structure and development of the object may be formulated on the basis of hypothetical conceptions of this objects. 2) Synthesis is reproduction or imitation of the object on an electronic computer with the help of a program which includes the laws discovered on during analysis. 3) Estimation of the machine results consists in determining the extent of adequacy of the model to the study object , that is the extent of similarity between machine end hcaun actions or results. This is the only criterion of a) …