In February 2011, the world was introduced to Watson, IBM’s cognitive computing system [1] that defeated Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter at Jeopardy! It was the first widely seen demonstration of cognitive computing, and it marked the end of the so-called“AI winter.”Watson’s ability to answer subtle, complex, pun-laden questions made clear that a new era of computing was at hand. An era where computers can start making sense of the vast amount of unstructured data in the world and apply this understanding not only to answer trivia questions, but also to tackle some of the world’s pressing problems and change how people interact with computers. Indeed, since Jeopardy!, Watson has tackled increasingly complex data sets, and developed understanding, reasoning, and learning. Specifically, we have identified five core capabilities of Cognitive Computing: 1. They create deeper human engagement; 2. They scale and elevate expertise; 3. They infuse products and services with cognition; 4. They enable cognitive processes and operations; 5. They enhance exploration and discovery. The true potential of the Cognitive Era will be realized by combining the data analytics, and statistical reasoning of machines with uniquely human qualities, such as self-directed goals, common sense, and ethical values. This is what Watson was built to do, and is in fact already doing. Banks are analyzing customer requests and financial data to surface insights to help them make investment recommendations. Companies in heavily regulated industries are querying the system to keep up with ever-changing legislation and standards of compliance. And oncologists are testing ways in which cognitive systems can help interpret cancer patients’ clinical information and identify individualized, evidence-based treatment options that leverage specialists’ experience and research. Customer and technical support are in particular being re-invented, relying more on cognitive systems for self-help and for agent assist. In this talk, we highlight some of the applications of Watson that are being pursued by IBM. These include applications in customer and technical support, in Finance, in Legal