Benvenuti! Welcome to an exciting week in the city of Indianapolis for the 2010 ACM SIGMOD Conference. Please familiarize yourself with the diverse fun activities the city has to offer, whether you are interested in professional sports, museums, restaurants and nightlife, the blues, shopping or strolls along the canals. The city has something for everyone and especially accompanying family members. The city is children friendly with a world class children museum and the Indianapolis Zoo which is within a walking distance. 
 
For those registered for the conference, we have a program of nightly social events that is going to get your party spirit up. The highlight of the social events is a lavish banquet at the Eiteljorg Museum of American Art that will feature a truly international dinner and a native Indian music. As usual, we will have a PODS reception on Sunday to be held at the Hyatt hotel (conference hotel), a SIGMOD reception on Monday to be held at the Indiana Roof Ballroom just across the street from the conference hotel. The venue for the Monday reception is unique and not to be missed, a Microsoft hosted reception on Tuesday night at the conference hotel. All this in addition to the usual meals provided on certain days. Because of the generous support from our sponsors (Platinum) IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, and SAP, (Gold) Google, Netezza, Sybase, and Yahoo! Labs, (Silver) Greenplum, MARK, and NEC, we were able to keep the conference fees to a minimum. 
 
We want to thank the SIGMOD EC for all the help and support they gave us through Lisa Singh, who was a tireless and relentless advocate and a sounding board. We also thank all the members of the organizing committee who gave selflessly of their time and energy. A list of all the organizing committee is included in these proceedings. 
 
The program features some novel ideas this year. One is the collocation of a Symposium on Cloud computing that is co-sponsored by SIGMOD and SIGOPS, and as usual we will have eight very exciting workshops, five industry sessions, four tutorials, four demo sessions, one panel, five industry sessions, and two plenary poster sessions. The main program is larger and broader than ever before. 
 
The call for research papers resulted in 384 submissions that conformed to SIGMOD's double-blind reviewing policy. All submissions were reviewed by at least three members of the SIGMOD 2010 Program Committee and after extended discussion the Program Committee accepted 80 papers to be included in the research program of SIGMOD 2010. The call for demonstration proposals resulted in 95 submissions out of which the SIGMOD 2010 Demonstration Track Program Committee selected 35 demonstrations to be presented at SIGMOD 2010. A combination of personal solicitation and the call for submissions resulted in 34 submissions for the Industrial Track. The Industrial Track Program Committee selected 18 papers to be presented in SIGMOD 2010 Industrial Sessions. In addition, the final program includes four tutorials and one panel discussion. Finally, the conference highlights include keynote addresses by two distinguished speakers: Jon Kleinberg from Cornell University and Luiz Andre Barroso from Google, Inc.