It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the MobiSys 2012: The Tenth International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services. This year's conference continues the MobiSys tradition of being the premier forum for presentation of research in mobile and wireless systems. 
 
The call for papers attracted 182 submissions. This was a new record for MobiSys and a strong sign that of the vibrancy of our community. Each paper was assigned to two Program Committee members for a first round of reviews. Each of the 155 papers with at least one review of "weak reject" was assigned an additional reviewer from the Program Committee in the second round. In the final round, we assigned an additional pair of reviewers or more to each of the top 88 papers. In all the Program Committee members and external reviewers generated 724 reviews and the top 88 papers received at least 5 reviews. 
 
The Program Committee met for a full day at La Jolla, CA. The Committee discussed the top 60 papers and accepted 32 papers for the program. The 32 paper count is another record high for MobiSys and shows that there is a great deal of high quality work coming from our community. Each of these 32 papers was shepherded by a member of the Program Committee to help ensure that recommendations made by the reviewers and during the Program Committee meeting were addressed. 
 
There were several new additions to the review process. First, we created an External Review Panel composed of people active in the mobile computing industry. In addition to getting the valuable opinions of these experts, a secondary goal of the panel was to increase the interaction between these industry leaders and the MobiSys community. Second, we had the Program Committee generate a single public review for each accepted paper. The public review highlights the key contributions of the paper that convinced the Program Committee to accept the paper and some of the remaining weaknesses in the paper. These public reviews were posted on an online forum (http://reviews.mobisys2012.rice.edu/) to help promote community discussion on each paper.