// Golfdom August 2013 Golfdom.com F or three days in February, golf industry professionals from across the country converge on Tampa, Fla. They come from as far as Hawaii and Pennsylvania and just about everywhere in-between. Their job titles include superintendent, golf professional and sales director. They’re there to learn about the business, network and take classes. This isn’t the Golf Industry Show. It’s not a regional conference. Welcome to management company Billy Casper Golf’s Annual Meeting. To some, the thought of having to attend a management company’s annual meeting would be a horror. Because that would mean that their course was now being operated by a management company. But to the attendees of the BCG meeting, this is one of the best weeks of the year. Because it’s the biggest reminder that they are a part of a management company — or, as many call it, “a team.” And they wouldn’t want it any other way. Schedule change Virginia-based Billy Casper Golf owns or manages roughly 150 golf courses in 28 states. The company, now 23 years in operation, employs a fair share of turf professionals. But it’s only been recently that those superintendents have truly felt like an integral part of the BCG team. Six years ago, the superintendents in the company didn’t attend the BCG Annual Meeting. They weren’t invited. It was at this time that Bryan Bielecki, vice president of agronomy for the company, affected change. He decided that superintendents must attend t he nat iona l meeting in order to get the credit they deserve, and enhance the business, art and science skills they bring to their properties daily. “We had that typical struggle with the perception of superintendents within the organization — like in the real world — about what superintendents do,” Bielecki recalls. “The superintendents needed to be exposed to the rest of the organization, and the rest of the organization needed to be exposed to our superintendents, to see they are real professionals.” Or, as BCG Chairman and CEO Peter Hill PH O TO S C O U R TE SY : M IC H A EL C LE M EN TS /B IL LY C A SP ER G O LF