Design engineers and decision-makers across various fields are constantly working to make optimal design decisions for multidisciplinary engineering systems in an effort to improve performance and reduce costs. The multiple disciplines that decision-makers are forced to consider can range from different physical components of a system, to competing physical phenomena influencing a component (e.g. flow forces and structural strength), to completely separate models of interest to a system (e.g. engineering performance and lifecycle cost). The common element that all these decision-making scenarios share is the presence of couplings between the considered disciplines (or subsystems). How the values for these coupling parameters are determined within a decision-making or optimization framework is the subject of countless research efforts. At present the multidisciplinary design optimization (MDO) community has settled on a few proven techniques such Collaborative Optimization (CO) and Analytic Target Cascading (ATC). However, current MDO techniques have issues that limit their effectiveness in solving various MDO problems. Many of these strategies require close coordination between subsystem optimization solvers, require significant effort by decision-makers to pose their problems in a suitable format, and/or can have large computational efficiency problems due to the fact that they involve solving nested optimization problems. In an effort to alleviate some of these issues and make MDO easier to implement and more computationally efficient, a new sequential MDO algorithm called Cooperative Design Optimization (CDO) is proposed. The CDO approach functions through a series of subsystem optimizations using a successively smaller cooperation space. The cooperation space is analogous to the design space of a traditional optimization problem, but includes only the coupling parameters that are a factor in multiple subsystems. A single iteration of the approach can be thought of as a negotiation between all of the subsystems regarding the boundaries of the cooperation space. To facilitate this cooperation, each subsystem optimization problem is restructured as a multi-objective optimization problem so that a Pareto set of optimal solutions, or agreeable design alternatives, are produced. As a result, after all subsystem optimizations are accomplished, each subsystem’s obtained Pareto optimal solution sets are compared with respect to the coupling parameters and new bounds in the cooperation space are determined for the next iteration. This process allows each subsystem to be optimized completely independently within the boundaries of the agreed upon cooperation space while coordination is achieved through an analysis of obtained optimal solutions for each subsystem. Iterations, or negotiations, are repeated until an acceptable solution or set of solutions is obtained for all included subsystems through this cooperative process.Copyright © 2014 by ASME