It is a great pleasure to welcome you to the 2016 ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Middleboxes and Network Function Virtualization  HotMiddlebox16. This year's event is the third workshop on this topic, and it comes at a time when middleboxes are becoming more important and more relevant in both industry and academia. 
 
Modern networks rely heavily on advanced network processing functions for a wide spectrum of crucial functions ranging from security through traffic management, all the way to Voice over IP (just to name few). Until recently, these network functions were implemented in dedicated hardware middleboxes spread within the network. However, the strive to reduce cost and increase agility is motivating a major shift to a paradigm where software based processing runs on virtualized, shared platforms built on commodity hardware servers, switches, and storage. 
 
This trend towards virtualized middleboxes, called Network Function Virtualization, NFV, with the use of Software Defined Networks, SDN to control the network flows is gaining popularity in the telecommunication industry as well as in academia. Yet this paradigm shift is at a very early stage and many interesting questions remain open in this regard. The HotMiddlebox'16 workshop is the venue where ongoing work from both academic and industry addressing various aspects of SDN and NFV virtual boxes is to be presented and discussed. 
 
HotMiddlebox'16 accepted 9 technical papers out of 28 submissions. The paper review process included an evaluation phase by PC members, followed by an online discussion of the top ranked papers, out of which 9 were accepted to appear in the program. The resulting program features a variety of papers focusing on different aspects of middleboxes, from monitoring and management, through privacy, to performance of virtual machines. There is a concentration of papers dealing with network function chains, from both the NFV and the SDN points of view. 
 
HotMiddlebox also features an exciting keynote, presented by Aditya Akella from University of Wisconsin-Madison. Aditya will discuss the meeting point of networking and systems, and how it helps both for SDN as well as for NFV. To further encourage change of ideas, we decided to have an open discussion among authors of the different papers at the end of each technical session. We hope that this will make HotMiddlebox'16 not just a stage to present top results in this area, but also a place where new ideas can incubate and sprout.