In this work, we consider the natural goal of designing secret sharing schemes that ensure security against an adversary who may learn some “leaked'' information about all the shares. We say that a secret sharing scheme is p-party leakage-resilient, if the secret remains statistically hidden even after a computationally unbounded adversary learns a bounded amount of leakage, where each bit of leakage adaptively and jointly depends on the shares of an adaptively chosen subset of p parties. Existing multi-party secret sharing schemes (Dziembowski and Pietrzak FOCS 07), (Goyal and Kumar STOC 18) and (Benhamouda, Degwekar, Ishai and Rabin CRYPTO 18) have focused on handling non-adaptive and individual leakage for (limited special cases of) threshold secret sharing schemes. • We give an unconditional compiler that transforms any secret sharing scheme on n parties into a p-party leakage-resilient one for p upto O(log n). This yields the first multi-party secret sharing schemes that are secure against adaptive or joint leakage. • As a natural extension, we initiate the study of leakage-resilient non-malleable secret sharing. We empower the adversary to adaptively leak from each of the shares and then use the leakage to tamper with all of them arbitrarily and independently. Leveraging our p-party leakage-resilient schemes, we compile any secret sharing scheme into a non-malleable one ensuring that any such tampering either preserves the secret or completely `destroys' it. This improves upon the non-malleable secret sharing scheme of (Goyal and Kumar CRYPTO 18) where no leakage was permitted. Leakage-resilient non-malleable codes can be seen as 2-out-of-2 schemes satisfying our guarantee and have already found many applications in cryptography. • Our constructions rely on a clean connection we draw to communication complexity in the well-studied number-on-forehead (NOF) model and rely on functions that have strong communication-complexity lower bounds in the NOF model (in a black-box way). We get efficient p-party leakage-resilient schemes for p upto O(log n) as our share sizes have exponential dependence on p. We observe that improving this exponential dependence, even for simultaneous, non-adaptive leakage, will lead to progress on longstanding open problems in complexity theory.