We introduce the SPHERE project which is devoted to eHealth in a smart-home context, and discuss the implications for such a system in terms of the quantification and management of uncertainty for automated decision making in health care. We then discuss the importance of calibration in such systems, particularly in light of the differing operational contexts that will be encountered. 1 Shifting to a new health-care paradigm: the SPHERE IRC Due to well-known demographic challenges, traditional regimes of health-care are in need of reexamination. Many countries are experiencing the effects of an ageing population, which coupled with a rise in chronic health conditions is expediting a shift towards the management of a wide variety of health related issues in the home. In this context, advances in Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) are providing resources to improve the experience of patients, as well as informing necessary interventions from relatives, carers and health-care professionals. To this end the EPSRC-funded “Sensor Platform for HEalthcare in a Residential Environment (SPHERE)” Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration (IRC) [13, 14] has designed a multi-modal system driven by data analytics requirements. The system is under test in a single house, and will be deployed in a general population of 100 homes in Bristol (UK). The data sets collected will be made available to researchers in a variety of communities. Current research on data fusion and machine learning in the SPHERE project addresses two main challenges, which are transparent decision making under uncertainty and adapting to multiple operating contexts. We proceed to describe these two challenges. 2 First challenge: Transparent decision making under uncertainty Naturally, the SPHERE setting presents many sources of uncertainty. Firstly, we are dealing with multiple sensor modalities (environmental, body-worn, video), each of which will have different noise profiles and failure modes. Secondly, we are dealing with a situation where annotated or labelled data is expensive and intrusive to acquire, and the resulting labels are potentially noisy and inaccurate (indeed in some cases there may be no “ground truth” in the classical sense, and we need to resort to modelling annotator disagreement explicitly). Lastly, patterns of human behaviour are subject to many factors (internal and external) that may or may not be attributed to the particular health context of a given individual. Faced with such a situation, the most sensible approach would be to use “white-box” modelling methods as far as possible. Model-based machine learning [5, 12] attempts to follow this ideal by encoding assumptions about the problem domain explicitly in the form of a model. Indeed,