| We give deterministic and randomized algorithms to nd a Euclidean traveling salesman tour (TST) of length within (1 + 1=s) times optimal. They run in O(N log N) time and O(N) space for constant dimension and s. These time and space bounds are optimal in an algebraic computation tree model. We can also nd a (1 + 1=s) times optimal length 2-matching (M2M), edge cover (EC), minimum spanning tree (MST), Steiner minimal tree (SMT), recti-linear ditto (RSMT), and related graphs in the same time bound. This improves recent algorithms of Arora, which had used N (log N) O(s d1) time in xed dimension d to produce a (1 + 1=s) times optimal TST (or SMT, RSMT) with success probability 1=2. To verify success , however, Arora could only use a deterministic version of his algorithm that took a factor of N d more time. The increase in running time for our determin-istic version depends only on s. Arora's approach can also be extended to produce other (1 +)-approximate geometrical graphs besides TSTs, e.g. the minimum matching (MM) and sub-graph versions of the MST and TST problems. Our methods (at least at the moment) don't apply to those problems, but we can produce a 1:001 exp(8 2 11=(d1) p d)-approximate MM in O(N log N) Monte Carlo time. Our algorithms are based on using low-weight Eu-clidean spanner graphs (and generalizations of them) in conjunction with the hierarchical structure theorems that serve as the basis of Arora's work. A \t-spanner" is a graph on N sites such that shortest path distance between two spanner vertices approximates the Euclidean distance to within a factor of t. By making work by Arya, Das, et al. more explicit, we show that a (1 + 1=s)-spanner of N sites in d-space is computable in (sd) O(d) N log N time and (sd) O(d) N space, has maximum valence (sd) O(d) , and is (sd) O(d) times longer than the MST. We show that spanners can in principle be made orders of magnitude shorter and simpler by allowing \Steiner points." We introduce a remarkable generalization of the NECI, 4 Independence way, Princeton NJ 08544 notion of \t-spanner," the \t-banyan," that t-approximates interconnection costs for site subsets of any cardinality, not just 2. If d 1 and > 0 are xed, we show a (1 +)-banyan of N sites in d-space exists, has O(N) vertices and O(N) …