TOUGHVISUAL is a full Windows-based graphical user interface for the TOUGHREACT program. TOUGHREACT is a general multiphase multicomponent reactive transport simulator, developed by introducing geochemistry into the multiphase fluid and heat flow code TOUGH2. TOUGHREACT has been widely used internationally for CO2 geological sequestration, nuclear waste disposal, groundwater remediation and geothermal energy development. The complexity of the input files (such as "flow.inp", "solute.inp" and "chemical.inp") required by original TOURHREACT, makes manual construction of these input files tedious and error-prone, especially dealing with complex geological structures and irregular study region. For this reason, we attempted to develop a new user-friendly interface. Here, we present a description and application examples of the improved pre- and post-processing graphical user interface TOUGHVISUAL. This interface can interactively create geometrical models, define related properties for multiphase flow and reactive transport, run the model, and view the simulation result. The interface offers a conceptual model approach and local grid refinement. It can deal with complex geological condition and heterogeneous media, and can share file data with other software to build a field-scale model. The interface presented here is a fully integrated package combining TOUGHREACT with the most intuitive and powerful graphical interface available. We adopts the ideal of modularization architecture. The program can be divided into several modules, according to the function. Certainly, each module would include some sub-modules. The innovative menu structure allows you to easily dimension the model domain and conveniently assign model properties and boundary conditions, run model simulations and visualize the results with 3D iso-surfaces, color shading or animation, which can be set in an interactive fashion. The model grid, input parameters, and results can be visualized in cross- section or plan view at any time during the development of the model. With this interface, one would find that it is very easy to generate and edit a conceptual TOUGHREACT or TOUGH2 model. In this paper, we first describe main features, design structures, and geometrical model of this interface in detail. Then, we present two application examples for how it can be used to set up a model, to run simulation and to visual simulation results.