This paper presents a method to automatically extract structure knowledge of mechanical systems from natural language text. The current work extends our prior work on extracting function knowledge from text, which was presented at last year’s conference. The method uses rules based on a combination of syntactic, lexical, and redundancy information to identify structure knowledge from parsed text. Three case studies were conducted to evaluate the method. The case studies involved extracting physical connections among a known set of components of a bicycle frame, an internal combustion engine, and a drum brake from Wikipedia. The current work makes progress toward addressing the challenge of knowledge acquisition for knowledge-based CAD systems. INTRODUCTION Knowledge is central in ascribing intelligence to any computational system. For a computer-aided design (CAD) system to support and perform intelligent tasks such as problem formulation and design synthesis, it inevitably requires an extensive design knowledge base [1-4]. However, knowledge acquisition is still a significant challenge in constructing a comprehensive and practical knowledge base for design. To facilitate the knowledge acquisition process for knowledge-based CAD systems, our previous work presented a method to automatically extract function knowledge from text [5]. The method applied techniques of automated knowledge base construction, in particular machine reading [6], to extract “artifact-function-flow” knowledge (e.g., “gears-transfermechanical energy”) from natural language text. Such function knowledge is essential in reasoning with design problems and solutions expressed at an abstract level to support conceptual and creative synthesis tasks. The current work extends the function knowledge extraction method to acquire system structure knowledge from text. Here, system structure knowledge is defined as physical connections between components in a system. One prominent example of such knowledge is the internal block diagram represented in SysML [7]. An internal block diagram consists of blocks, which are structural elements of a (sub-) system, and their interconnections, as shown in Figure 1. Similarly, the function modeling diagrams [8], which are widely used in engineering, also convey system structure knowledge. The diagrams represent relationships between components as input / output flows, which can be material, energy, or signal [9]. System structure knowledge can be useful in several aspects of problem formulation during a computer-aided design process [2]. First, generalized system structure knowledge can serve as a template (or a “prototype” [10]) for new design problems. For example, a designer working on a bicycle frame design could import a generic system model such as Figure 1 and instantiate, refine, or modify the model according to the designer’s specific problem. In addition, formally expressed structure knowledge combined with the function knowledge of individual components could produce a behavioral model of the system that can be simulated and optimized. This corresponds to formulating a system-level design problem. Or, the system structure knowledge can lead to the formulation of part-level design problems, e.g., shape optimization of a single or multiple part(s) in the system, as illustrated in Figure 2. The method developed for the current work uses the similar approach as our work on function knowledge extraction [5]. First, a corpus is chosen and parsed to obtain syntactic information. Then, extraction rules are applied to identify candidate knowledge. The rules leverage both the syntactic information produced by the parser and the lexical knowledge of Functional Basis [9], WordNet [11] and word2vec [12]. The new contributions of the current work are the following. First, rules that are specific to extracting system structure knowledge are presented. In addition, the current work acquires graph data to represent system-level knowledge, in contrast from triplet data acquired in [5] to represent partlevel knowledge. The knowledge acquired is also generalized from a larger corpus based on redundancy information – repeated observation of same knowledge from different documents [13].