The Applied Data Science (ADS) Invited Talks Track at KDD-2017 is a continuation of what has now become a "7-year tradition" at KDD conferences. This is the second year the track operates under the ADS name, an evolution from its origins at KDD-2011 as the "Industry Practice Expo". The KDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) is the world's first, largest and best conference on Data Science, Data Mining, and Knowledge Discovery. It brings together a healthy mix of academic researchers, industry and government researchers, and practitioners from a wide range of institutions and fields. The primary focus on KDD is on peer-reviewed research contributions and the academic advancement of the field. This is an important goal and in fact the KDD conference is now recognized as the most competitive and prestigious forum for presenting high quality research results. KDD, being fundamentally an applied field, needs the strong representation of applied work of big impact. Over the years of running the conference we observed that our initial speaker-selection approach needed to be re-thought because of the important contributions made to the field outside traditional academic, industrial and government research laboratories. The result of this re-thinking was to create a forum that exposes important contributions to Data Science through Big Data Applications that address strategic problems. We wanted to effectively capture the rising importance of Data Science and Machine Learning especially in the Big Data environment where structured and unstructured data create special challenges, and of course present new opportunities. The goal of the Invited Talks Track is to curate contributions from leaders in our field who have made important contributions through the development of a system, the creation of a new and important business, or the development and market introduction of a product,. Some of these important contributions may never see an academic paper or detailed peer-reviewed paper written about them, yet they are of critical importance to our very applied field. To give you an idea of how rapidly growing this area is, and how this sector of our industry and promises to be highly disruptive across many industries, we cite a couple of articles out of a plethora of such coverage: According to IDC, the global revenues from Big Data and business will grow from $130.1 billion in 2016 to more than $203 billion in 2020, at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 11.7% [1]. Furthermore, to quote from a Forbes article: "Data monetization" will become a major source of revenues, as the world will create 180 zettabytes of data (or 180 trillion gigabytes) in 2025, up from less than 10 zettabytes in 2015.? [2]