We introduce and analyze a new technique Linear Progmmming Based Restn”ction (LP Restriction) for solving translational containment and enclosure problems. The ~ontainment task is to translate k m-gons into a n-gon container. The enclosure task is to translate k m-gons into a minimum area n-gon which is convex with fixed orientation edges. All running times are based on an assumption of fixed k and are asymptotic in m and n. Lower bounds are roved for confk tainment in a nonconvex container: Q((mn) ) for nonconvex polygons and Cl(nk ) for convex polygons. LP restriction ac.Meves upper bound O ( (m2 + rnn)2k log n) for nonconvex polygons and O((mn)k log n) for convex polygons. The former almost matches the lower bound, and the latter does also for constant m. For arbitrary m and k >3, the latter is faster than any other known algorithm for translational containment of convex polygons. A proof is given that the area function for fixed-angle convex polygons is Lorentzian. Enclosure algorithms based on thk result have running times 0((m2 + n)2k-2 (n+ log m)) for nonconvex polygons and O((m + n)2k(n + logm)) or 0(mk-l(n2~+1 + logm)) for convex polygons. We are not aware of any previous running times for k-polygon minimum area enclosure. Other containment and enclosure results are given. LP restriction demonstrates a useful combination of mathematical programming and computational geometry which may be a paradigm for solving other tasks. We show that the containment and enclosure algorithms are useful in industry. Software based on LP restriction has been licensed to industry, and it is the fastest available solution to translational containment and enclosure for nonconvex polygons. ● University of Miami, Department of Math and Computer Science. Email: vjm@cs.miami.edu. This research was funded by the Textile/Clothing Technology Corporation from funds awarded to them by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, by NSF grant CCR-91-157993, and by a subcontract of a National Textile Center grant to Auburn University, Department of Consumer Affairs. permission to make dlgitalihard copies of ail or pafi of thh material fOr personal or classroom uee is granted without fee provided that the copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage, the copyright notice, the titie of the publication and ita date appear, and notice is given that copyright is by permission of the ACM, Ine. To copy otherwise, to republish, to poet on servers or to redktributc to tiats, requires specific permission and/or f+. STOC’96, Philadelphia PA, USA Q 1996 ACM 0-89791-785-5/96/05. .$3.50