A scheme is proposed to e n h a n c e the fault-tolerance of multistage interconnection networks which only have a unique path between each input/output pair (e.g. Omega networks, Baseline networks, etc.). It is done by creating multiple paths between each input/output pair of the network through extra links between switching elements in the same stage. This scheme requires a simple routing algorithm and allows a network to become more robust as its size increases. A reliability analysis is presented to provide a quantitative measurement on the improvement of its fault-tolerance capability. In terms of reliability, a network implemented with this scheme is more cost-effective than a regular one. 1. I N T R O D U C T I O N The enormous progress in VLSI technology has made the design of high-performance multiprocessor systems economically feasible [1-3]. Due to the necessity of interconnecting a large number of processors and memory modules in a tightly-coupled multiproeessor system, the design of a cost-effective interconnection network inevitably becomes a critical issue. Many multistage interconnection networks (MINs) have been proposed [4-9]. Most of them have the characteristics that only a unique path is provided between each input/output pair of the network. To these MINs, any single failure in a switching element or a link may render some outputs unreachable from certain inputs. To overcome this problem, many schemes have been proposed to improve their fault-tolerant capabilities [1019]. In [14], Lilienkamp et al. presented an encoding scheme to correct errors due to single or multiple failures in switching elements or links. Because data must be transmitted in parallel rather than in serial in this scheme, the hardware complexity is thus quite high. Adam and Siegel [13] proposed an Extra Stage Cube netThis work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Grants No. US NSF MCS81-00512 and US NSF DCR8410110, the US Department of Energy under Grant No. US DOE DE FG02-85ER25001, and by the Department of Computer Science and the Graduate College of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign. work, which is derived by adding an extra stage to the Generalized Cube network. An extra path is provided to tolerate any single fault. Later, they showed some modifications to improve its multiple-fault tolerance capability [19]. However, it will need an extra stage, extra logics, and extra computation for generating n e w tags to circumvent a faulty element. Another scheme to provide multiple paths was proposed by Padmanabhan [17]. From some stage called "fork" to a later stage called "join" in a network, R-redundant paths between each input/output pair can be built. However, a request has to be backtracked to the forking point of the path when it encounters a failure or a conflict. The increase of delay time and the complexity of routing control are significant. Here we present a new scheme to provide multiple paths in an MIN. It performs quite well with respect to the criteria listed in [15] for designing fault-tolerant networks. Moreover, the network has low delay time as well as high bandwidth. A regular structure of switching elements (SEs) is employed to construct such a network. Any single fault can be tolerated throughout the entire network, including inputs of the first stage and outputs of the last stage. In the next section, the configuration of this network and its routing scheme will be described. A fault model and reliability analyses of the network will be given in section 3. Final concluding remarks will he presented in section 4. 2. F A U L T T O L E R A N T M I N S 2 . 1 . N e t w o r k c o n f i g u r a t i o n It is well known that many MINs are topologically equivalent [5]. We will use a Baseline network [5] as an example to illustrate our scheme. Similar scheme can also be applied to other MINs. A Baseline network of size 8x8 is shown in Fig. 1.a. There are 3 stages in the network. Each stage consists of four 2x2 switching elements. There is only a unique path between each input/output pair of the network. Hence, it is very susceptible to any failure in those SEs or in the links which connect them. Nevertheless, an arbitrary output of a network can be reached by any inputs as depicted in Fig. 1.a. It forms a tree spanning 0149-7111/85/0000/0368501.00 © 1985 I EEE 368