As information systems play a more active role in the management and operations of an enterprise, the demands on these systems have also increased. Departing from their traditional role as simple repositories of data, information systems must now provide more sophisticated support to manual and automated decision making; they must not only answer queries with what is explicitly represented in their Enterprise Model, but must be able to answer queries with what is implied by the model. The goal of the TOVE (TOronto Virtual Enterprise) Enterprise Modelling project is to create the next generation Enterprise Model, a Common Sense Enterprise Model. By common sense we mean that an Enterprise Model has the ability to deduce answers to queries that require relatively shallow knowledge of the domain. We are taking what can be viewed as a `second generation knowledge engineering' approach to constructing our Common Sense Enterprise Model. Rather than extracting rules from experts, we are `engineering ontologies.' An ontology is a formal description of entities and their properties, relationships, constraints, behaviours. Through interaction with our industrial partners, we encounter problems that arise in their particular enterprises. Our approach to engineering ontologies begins with using these problems to de ne an ontology's requirements in the form of questions that an ontology must be able to answer. We call this the competency of the ontology. The second step is to de ne the terminology of the ontology its objects, attributes, and relations. In this way the ontology provides the language that will be used to express the de nitions in the terminology and the constraints required by the application. The third step is to specify the de nitions and constraints on the terminology, where possible. The speci cations are represented in First Order Logic and implemented in Prolog. Lastly, we test the competency of the ontology by proving completeness theorems with respect to the competency questions. Our initial e orts have focused on ontologies to support reasoning in industrial environments. The tasks that we have targeted to support are in `supply chain management' which extends MRP (Manufacturing Requirements Planning) to include logistics/distribution [Fox