We identify a useful property of a program with respect to a predicate, called factoring. While we prove that detecting factorability is undecidable in general, we show that for a large class of programs, the program obtained by applying the Magic Sets transformation is factorable with respect to the recursive predicate. When the factoring property holds, a simple optimization of the program generated by the Magic Sets transformation results in a new program that is never less efficient than the Magic Sets program and is often dramatically more efficient, due to the reduction of the arity of the recursive predicate. We show that the concept of factoring generalizes some previously identified special cases of recursions, including separable recursions and rightand left-linear recursions, and that the specialized evaluation algorithms and rewriting strategies developed for *Department of Computer Science, Princeton University. Work supported by DARPA and ONR contracts NO0014 85-C-6456 and N60914-85-K-0465, and by NSF Cooperative Agreement DCR8420948 tcomputer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Work supported in part by an IBM Faculty Development award and NSF grant IRI-8804319. Part of this work was done while visiting IBM Almaden Research Center. tDept. of Computer Science, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel. Work supported in part by grant 2545-2-87 from the Israeli National Council for Research and Development (ILNCRD). fStanford University. Work supported by NSF grant IRI87-22886 and Air Force grant AFOSR88-0266 and a grant of the IBM Corp. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made ot distributed for direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Very Large Data Base Endowment. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or special permission from the Endowment. those classes can be derived automatically by applying the Magic Sets transformation and then factoring the result.