The rapid decrease in the cost of computer storage has made the cost of storing on-line information progressively cheaper. Database management systems (DBMS) have been developed to increase the ease and effectiveness of information storage and retrieval. These DBMS usually use semi-formal language statements to store and retrieve information. The untrained person cannot easily access machine-stored information, because access requires a specialised knowledge of the methodology and semi-formal language used to store the information. Both high-level programming languages and DBMS query languages lay claim to be similar to human-(that is, natural-) language statements and thus easy to use. However, the reality is that they are only usable by highly trained people. Thus, access to machine-stored information is limited by a communication barrier. A compounding difficulty is that the ultimate users of the computer-stored information may not reasonably be expected to become computer-language-proficient in addition to their other duties. What is needed is an interface between a person's normal written communication medium-a natural language-a n d the more formal language normally used when accessing information from a computer. This project investigated an aspect of natural-language processing which can be applied to the analysis of database queries. In particular, it focused on issues involved in informal/formal language mapping by developing a basis for processing English-language requests for the retrieval of information from an existing DBMS package. The investigation concentrated on forming a mechanistic basis to be used to locate semantic constituents of a request which would ultimately support the eventual matching of these constituents against templates and larger templates called scripts or concept case frames. The concept case frames are to be filled in with information from the user's request. Eventually, a data query language request is to be generated from the collected information. The theoretical issues focus on the analysis of query content in a topic-constrained environment. The principal question is the role of non-parsing techniques in the recognition of semantic components of the query. It is