The Space Shuttle avionics system flight software is a highly complex, hard real-time, man-rated system. The heart of the Shuttle avionics system is a four computer redundant set executing synchronous versions of the Primary Avionics System Software (PASS), and one computer executing the Backup Flight System software (BFS). These systems consists of over 1000 modules of HAL/S and assembly code. While it is considered a mature system, by its nature it has been and will continue to be subject to a large number of changes. Changes which are driven by the increasingly demanding mission requirements and routine upgrades to the avionics equipment. Changes to the PASS and BFS software are controlled by a well defined process. All changes must be approved by a control board, the design and coding process includes several internal checks and the test process is extensive and includes overlapping test coverage. This process has been continuously refined and has included an independent verification and validation contractor since the Challenger accident. As the IV&V contractor, our challenge was to adapt our conventional IV&V methodology to this software development environment. The Shuttle IV&V process we have developed focuses on the requirements definition and test planning phases and stresses the system wide interactions which may not be detected by the existing test processes. Every proposed change to the software is evaluated for two types of risk: one based on the safety criticality of the software function being modified and the other based on the complexity of the code itself. The level of risk determines the extent of the IV&V. That is, the IV&V process may include up to three phases: limited, focused, and comprehensive. Limited addresses requirements and system impacts; focused addresses code and module tests; comprehensive addresses system integration testing. The highest risk changes are subject to all three phases. To ensure completeness and quality, the analysts are trained on a specific functional area, follow a structured process for each phase of the IV&V, and use a set of interactive, Unix based tools specifically tailored to the Shuttle software environment. As a final quality check and to ensure the all system impacts have been identified, all results are viewed by a " peer review " panel of senior system engineers from other Shuttle functional areas. Conducting IV&V for a man-rated, real time systems has required the analysis of problems well beyond the scope of conventional IV&V. For example: …