In the paper we study a new and natural modal interpretation of defaults. We show that under this interpretation there are whole families of modal nonmonotonic logics that accurately represent default reasoning. One of these logics is used in a definition of possible-worlds semantics for default logic. This semantics yields a characterization of default extensions similar to the characterization of stable expansions by means of autoepistemic interpretation. We also show that the disjunctive information can easily be handled if disjunction is represented by means of modal disjunctive defaults — modal formulas that we use in our interpretation. Our results indicate that there is no single modal logic for describing default reasoning. On the contrary, there exist whole ranges of modal logics, each of which can be used in the embedding as a "host" logic. 1 Introduction The default logic of Reiter [1980] is a nonmonotonic formalism based on the paradigm of "negation as failure to prove" and is defined by means of a certain fixed-point construction. It is a formalism in the language of propo-sitional calculus (or, in a more general variant, in the language of first-order logic). In 1982, McDermott [1982], building on the joint work with Doyle [1980], introduced a large class of modal nonmonotonic logics. He proposed a general scheme which, also using "negation as failure to prove" and a fixed-point construction, assigns to each monotone modal logic its nonmonotonic variant. The au-toepistemic logic of Moore [1985], an important modal formalism, belongs to the McDermott-Doyle's family of logics (see [Shvarts, 1990]). In recent years there have been numerous attempts to explain and exploit the nature of the relationship between the default logic and modal nonmonotonic logics. There are two main reasons behind the interest in this particular research area. Firstly, modal nonmonotonic logics often have clear, intuitive semantics (for example, list semantics [Moore, 1985], possible-world semantics [Moore, 1984; Konolige, 1988], or preference semantics [Shoham, 1987]), and the default logic lacks one. By embedding the default logic into a modal nonmonotonic logic with an elegant semantics , insights into semantic aspects of default logic can be gained. Secondly, the automated inference methods for the "host" modal nonmonotonic logic could be used as a uniform tool for handling default theories. The default logic was first embedded into a variant of autoepistemic logic by Konolige [1988]. Marek and Truszczynski [1989; 1990] proposed to embed default logic into the nonmonotonic variant …