The plan or program for a manufacturing cell may be seen either from the workpiece (describing the successive operations that it wants to undergo during its track through the cell) or from the perspective of the workcell (describing its quasi-parallel operation on several workpieces which are processed simultaneously in the cell}. This paper addresses the question of how to verify tnat a proposed cell program implements a given workpiece program. The verification method is described informally using an example, and then formulated in precise and formal terms. 0. The Planning Problem in Factory Automation. One of the important research problems in factory automation is improved methods for programming production cells. The flexible manufacturing environment has high demands on easy development and update of programs, and requires convenient, application-level dialogue between the engineer or operator who is in charge of the production cell, and the controlling computer system. It is not practically possible to satisfy these requirements only using conventional software engineering techniques. Good software systems for programming production cells should make it possible to describe the desired behavior of the cell in terms of the objects which are present there (e.g. NC machines, robots, and conveyors), and in terms of the natural, elementary actions that those objects can perform (e.g. elementary move operations performed by an industrial robot). The techniques of knowledge based programming, often known as expert systems techniques, are well suited for realizing such a problem-oriented programming style. If artificial intelligence techniques are therefore likely to be useful for factory automation in this particular respect, it is equally true that the factory automation domain offers important and interesting problems for artificial intelligence. In particular, the production cell is a 'world' of non-trivial but limited complexity, where current techniques for planning and problem-solving can be further developed and refined. The present paper • hows how a method for planning and for reasoning about actions, suitably extended, can be used for a practically significant planning problem in production cells. 1. Pipelining of Manufacturing Plans. Consider a simplified production cell for automatic manufacture, as illustrated in figure 1. Successive workpieces arrive on the incoming conveyor (fl, and are processed by the three successive machines (X,Y, and Z). A handling robot (R) moves the workpieces from I to X (movement operation A), from X to Y (movement operation B), from Y to Z (movement operation C), and from Z to outgoing conveyor, …