Counting small subgraphs, referred to as motifs, in large graphs is a fundamental task in graph analysis, extensively studied across various contexts and computational models. In the sublinear-time regime, the relaxed problem of approximate counting has been explored within two prominent query frameworks: the standard model, which permits degree, neighbor, and pair queries, and the strictly more powerful augmented model, which additionally allows for uniform edge sampling. Currently, in the standard model, (optimal) results have been established only for approximately counting edges, stars, and cliques, all of which have a radius of one. This contrasts sharply with the state of affairs in the augmented model, where algorithmic results (some of which are optimal) are known for any input motif, leading to a disparity which we term the “scope gap” between the two models. In this work, we make significant progress in bridging this gap. Our approach draws inspiration from recent advancements in the augmented model and utilizes a framework centered on counting by uniform sampling, thus allowing us to establish new results in the standard model and simplify on previous results. In particular, our first, and main, contribution is a new algorithm in the standard model for approximately counting any Hamiltonian motif in sublinear time, where the complexity of the algorithm is the sum of two terms. One term equals the complexity of the known algorithms by Assadi, Kapralov, and Khanna (ITCS 2019) and Fichtenberger and Peng (ICALP 2020) in the (strictly stronger) augmented model and the other is an additional, necessary, additive overhead. Our second contribution is a variant of our algorithm that enables nearly uniform sampling of these motifs, a capability previously limited in the standard model to edges and cliques. Our third contribution is to introduce even simpler algorithms for stars and cliques by exploiting their radius-one property. As a result, we simplify all previously known algorithms in the standard model for stars (Gonen, Ron, Shavitt (SODA 2010)), triangles (Eden, Levi, Ron Seshadhri (FOCS 2015)) and cliques (Eden, Ron, Seshadri (STOC 2018)).