In the turnstile streaming model, a dynamic vector x=(x1,…,xn)∈ ℤn is updated by a stream of entry-wise increments/decrements. Let f∶ℤ→ ℝ+ be a symmetric function with f(0)=0. The f-moment of x is defined to be f(x) := ∑v∈[n]f(xv). We revisit the problem of constructing a universal sketch that can estimate many different f-moments. Previous constructions of universal sketches rely on the technique of sampling with respect to the L0-mass (uniform samples) or L2-mass (L2-heavy-hitters), whose universality comes from being able to evaluate the function f over the samples. To get samples, hash collisions are deliberately detected and avoided (with high probability), e.g. singleton-detectors are used in L0-sampling and the CountSketch is used in L2-sampling. Such auxiliary data structures introduce significant overhead in space. Apart from this issue, sampling-based methods are shown to perform poorly for estimating certain “nearly periodic functions” where Ω(poly(n)) samples are needed. In this paper, we propose a new universal sketching scheme that is almost “dual” to the sampling-based methods. Instead of evaluating f on samples, we decompose f into a linear combination of homomorphisms f1,f2,… from (ℤ,+) to (ℂ,×), where the fk-moments can be estimated regardless of hash collisions—because each fk is a homomorphism! Then we synthesize the estimates of the fk-moments to obtain an estimate of the f-moment. Universality now comes from the fact that we can weight the fk-moments arbitrarily, where the correct weighting depends on the harmonic structure of the function f. In contrast to the sampling-based methods, the new SymmetricPoissonTower sketch takes the harmonic approach. It embraces hash collisions instead of avoiding them, which saves multiple logn factors in space, e.g., when estimating all Lp-moments (f(z) = |z|p,p∈[0,2]). For many nearly periodic functions, the new sketch is exponentially more efficient than sampling-based methods. We conjecture that the SymmetricPoissonTower is the universal sketch that can estimate every tractable function f.