A hypergraph spectral sparsifier of a hypergraph G is a weighted subgraph H that approximates the Laplacian of G to a specified precision. Recent work has shown that similar to ordinary graphs, there exist O(n)-size hypergraph spectral sparsifiers. However, the task of computing such sparsifiers turns out to be much more involved, and all known algorithms rely on the notion of balanced weight assignments, whose computation inherently relies on repeated, complete access to the underlying hypergraph. We introduce a significantly simpler framework for hypergraph spectral sparsification which bypasses the need to compute such weight assignments, essentially reducing hypergraph sparsification to repeated effective resistance sampling in ordinary graphs, which are obtained by oblivious vertex-sampling of the original hypergraph. Our framework immediately yields a simple, new nearly-linear time algorithm for nearly-linear size spectral hypergraph sparsification. Furthermore, as a direct consequence of our framework, we obtain the first nearly-optimal algorithms in several other models of computation: 1. The first nearly-optimal size linear sketches for spectral hypergraph sparsification. For hypergraphs on n vertices, with hyperedges of arity ≤ r and with ≤ m hyperedges, these sketches require only O(n r (m) / 2) bits and recover a (1 ± ) spectral-hypergraph sparsifier with high probability. It is known that linear sketches require Ω(nr log(m)) bits even for the easier task of cut sparsification (Khanna-Putterman-Sudan FOCS 2024). 2. The first nearly-optimal fully dynamic (1 ± ) spectral (and cut) hypergraph sparsification algorithm. Our algorithm has an amortized, expected update time of O(r (m) / 2), and produces sparsifiers with O(n (m) / 2) hyperedges. This is nearly-optimal as even to read a single hyperedge takes time Ω(r). 3. The first nearly-optimal algorithm for online hypergraph spectral sparsification. On a sequence of m (unweighted) hyperedges, our algorithm creates a (1 ± ) hypergraph spectral sparsifier with O(n (m) / 2) hyperedges in an online manner. When m≤ (n), this improves upon the work of Soma, Tung, and Yoshida (IPCO 2024) by a factor of r, who created online sparsifiers with O(n (r + log(m)) / 2) hyperedges. We complement this result with an Ω(n log(m)) lower-bound for any online sparsifier, thus provably separating the classical and online settings. Our main conceptual and technical contributions are introduction of (a) the vertex sampling framework to reduce spectral sparsification in hypergraphs to ordinary graphs, and (b) a notion of collective energy in hypergraphs that may be seen as a continuous generalization of k-cuts.