The advent of social networks and media has made it easier than ever for users to access up-to-date information as well as share news and views on matters of the world with many of their peers. Unfortunately, it has also led to increased societal polarization as well as deteriorating trust in institutions. Two of the problems that are blamed for this are filter bubbles and misinformation. Filter bubbles are the result of excessive personalization which has the benefit of enhancing relevance but comes at the price of limiting the exposure of users to a specific viewpoint. They are amplified by the so-called echo chambers that exist in social media, whereby members of a community mutually reinforce a fixed opinion or viewpoint on an issue. Misinformation, on the other hand, tends to propagate through the network, and studies show it does so faster and more virally than truth. Both problems manifest themselves in the form of groups of actors working in concert and providing mutual reinforcement. How can we recognize these groups? Having detected them, how can we counteract these problems? The first question can benefit from an examination of techniques developed to search for communities or more generally dense subgraphs from an underlying network. As for the second question, a natural approach for countering filter bubbles is to launch some kind of counter-campaign to try and enhance the balance in users' exposure to viewpoints. Countermeasures for misinformation propagating through a network, on the other hand, are manifold and can depend on who is planning the countermeasure. For example, the network host can intervene and take steps to limit the propagation of misinformation, but these actions come with a cost. Besides the political sensitivity and cost of limiting freedom of expression, what if the intervention was by mistake done on genuine information? As another example, a third party interested in countering the propagation of misinformation may launch a counter-campaign. Interestingly, some of the ideas behind designing such campaigns have strong connections to a classic problem called Influence Maximization, studied in a very different context, driven by different applications like viral marketing, infection containment, and revenue or welfare maximization. In this talk, we will examine research on detecting dense subgraphs as well as competitive influence maximization and discuss how that can inspire techniques for addressing the two problems above.