Massive open online courses (MOOCs) are becoming a modish way for education, which provides a large-scale and open-access learning opportunity for students to grasp the knowledge. To attract students' interest, the recommendation system is applied by MOOCs providers to recommend courses to students. However, as a course usually consists of a number of video lectures, with each one covering some specific knowledge concepts, directly recommending courses overlook students' interest to some specific knowledge concepts. To fill this gap, in this paper, we study the problem of knowledge concept recommendation. We propose an end-to-end graph neural network based approach calledAttentional Heterogeneous Graph Convolutional Deep Knowledge Recommender (ACKRec) for knowledge concept recommendation in MOOCs. Like other recommendation problems, it suffers from sparsity issue. To address this issue, we leverage both content information and context information to learn the representation of entities via graph convolution network. In addition to students and knowledge concepts, we consider other types of entities (e.g., courses, videos, teachers) and construct a heterogeneous information network (HIN) to capture the corresponding fruitful semantic relationships among different types of entities and incorporate them into the representation learning process. Specifically, we use meta-path on the HIN to guide the propagation of students' preferences. With the help of these meta-paths, the students' preference distribution with respect to a candidate knowledge concept can be captured. Furthermore, we propose an attention mechanism to adaptively fuse the context information from different meta-paths, in order to capture the different interests of different students. To learn the parameters of the proposed model, we propose to utilize extended matrix factorization (MF). A series of experiments are conducted, demonstrating the effectiveness of ACKRec across multiple popular metrics compared with state-of-the-art baseline methods. The promising results show that the proposed ACKRec is able to effectively recommend knowledge concepts to students pursuing online learning in MOOCs.