There are several wireless systems applications in a numerous area such as remote sensing, microwave imaging, mobile and personal communications, etc. The scope of this talk is to highlight the research work performed by the speaker on planar antenna technologies. The effect of ground plane in the designing of UWB planar antenna is discussed and a new technique for bandwidth enhancement is presented. Metamaterial can successfully miniature the antenna size which is a prime requisite of modern portable communication devices while the modified Vivaldi antenna aims to achieve higher gain and directionality suitable for imaging and remote sensing purposes. Microwave imaging (MI) is a promising candidate for breast and head tumour detection. The difference between the electrical properties is identified with the microwave sensor. In the microwave imaging system, the power is radiated over an antenna sensor, and another one or pair of sensor receives the scattered power. The scattered signals are further processed to detect the unwanted malignant tissues. The ultra- wideband has the advantage of deep penetration and higher resolution features. In this talk, I will discuss metamaterial loaded patch antenna focusing on imaging sensing capabilities and present exciting new ways of capturing backscattered signal from the breast phantom to see the breast imaging property. The presentation also introduces the basic principles of metamaterial loaded patch antennas prototype development and the integration to microwave imaging system to evaluate the unwanted tumor detection in the breast and head tissue. In this keynote speech, we are going to cover the current state-of-the-art technologies of metamaterial loaded patch antenna to collect backscattered signal and processing for immersive microwave breast imaging applications. After defining the basic requirement for imaging through metamaterial loaded patch antenna design, we will cover the array type imaging system development technique. I will also address the potential application for date palms tress and pipeline Imaging in oil and gas industries.