Increasingly, increasingly, engineering should be required to solve clinical healthcare challenges. Our authors try to bridge the gap between engineers and clinical workers and translate engineering knowledge into clinical applications in order to accelerate biomedical innovation, trial, and commercialization. In this paper, the introduction of recognition for MSD is reported and we believe that our approach can be one of the examples to solve several clinical healthcare challenges. Figure 1 shows an importance to recognize the difference in posture between skilled experts and unskilled novices during lifting. If such a difference exists, because it is possible to recognize the degree and phase of the difference in posture with the quantitative value, we expect to connect to reduce the current high ratio of occupational low back pain. However, although there is no doubt that body position affects the magnitude of the loads on the spine, there is existed the serious problem which no logistic worker knows whether the own current MMH is proper or not. Although there have been a lot of results related to measure the relationship between the MMH and the burden of the body, it is not easy for logistic workers to measure the MMH by themselves. That is the reason why most of the conventional sensing system is ill-suited to the actual logistic workplace. Computer vision system, such as motion capture system, requires the installation of multiple cameras inside the container and the method to track all of the markers. Wearable system, such as accelerometer and motion suit, requires a mounting system that does not interfere with the worker in terms of handling or discomfort. Furthermore, the most significant problem is that conventional sensing system has a difficulty in measuring the influence of various conditions between the load and the human body on the lifting posture. Focusing on these several points, we proposed the use of CoP trajectories in one of our previous studies [1,2]. Figure 2 shows results of measured vGRF parameters for three different groups during the lifting posture (Group 1: (a) all of the skilled experts; Group 2: (b) all of the unskilled novices; Group 3: (c) all of the experts with MSD.) Three red colored circles and lines indicate mean ± SD. The horizontal and vertical axes represent the ratio of motion cycle and body mass, respectively. It was shown that there was no big individual difference between motion cycle and the ratio of body mass for Group 1, but there was a big difference for Group 2 and 3. As you can see results in Figure 2, because the measurement of CoP had the high feasibility at the logistic workplace, it was possible to self-evaluate characteristics of current own lifting posture through measured data. The recognizing method was used for analyzing the difference of lifting posture between skilled logistic experts and unskilled workers. Thus the proposed method had a high possibility to help in the early detection of poor lifting in order to prevent unskilled workers from MSDs. Volume 3 Issue 1 2017