Welcome! It has been my pleasure and privilege to serve as Program Chair for ASPLOS 2017. We received a record 320 submissions, demonstrating the continued popularity of ASPLOS's focus on multidisciplinary research spanning computer architecture, programming languages, compilers, operating systems, networking, and applications. Reflecting recent trends in systems research, popular topics included memory systems (54 submissions), programming models and languages (50), multicore (47) and heterogeneous (43) architectures, power management (41), security (33), cloud (31), virtualization (28), and GPUs (25). 
 
Review Process: All reviewing and discussion, including at the PC meeting, was double blind. As in past ASPLOS conferences, I used a 2-phase review process. In the first phase, each paper received 3 reviews, after which the reviewers discussed the papers online. Papers with at least one review that clearly advocated acceptance or two reviews that were mildly supportive, 162 of the 320 submissions, received at least two additional second round reviews. I monitored reviews to track quality and correct any expertise mismatch. After the second round of reviews were in, all authors were given the opportunity to provide rebuttal feedback. After the rebuttal phase, I assigned each paper a discussion lead to carefully read all the reviews, the rebuttal, and the online comments, and initiate a discussion to decide whether the paper should be accepted, rejected, or discussed at the PC meeting. For a few papers, I solicited post-rebuttal reviews to provide additional insights. 
 
The program committee met at the J.J. Pickle Research Center in Austin, Texas on November 7th, 2016. PC members had access to the reviews for all papers for which they had no declared conflict. Paper authors were not revealed during the PC meeting. PC papers were not explicitly identified. Before the title or paper number of any paper being discussed was revealed, conflicted PC members were asked to leave the room. We ultimately accepted a record 53 papers for publication and presentation at this year's ASPLOS, a 16.6% acceptance rate.