The office of the future is defined. It is a work stationdominated by a micro computer which is in communication with morepowerful computers, large disks, printers, and other equipmentwhich can be shared. The large computers, disks, printers, and allthe rest already exist. Micro Computers or desk top computersalready exist. There are only two steps left in realizing theoffice of the future. One step involves electronics; establishinghigh speed communication between the desk top computer and all ofthe other equipment. The second involves programming; defining anddeveloping coherent software systems. This paper is about the wayin which these two problems were handled by the department ofpolitical science at the university of Iowa.
Weeg Computing Center provides academic computing services forthe University of Iowa. They do this with a collection ofcomputers; there is an I.B.M. 370, 5 Prime 750s, 4 Hewlett Packard2000s, and a Vax. There are also disks, plotters, printers, and thewhole panoply of equipment one expects in a university computingenvironment. In addition, a Gandalf communication system makes itpossible to access any one of these computers at speeds up to 2400bits per second. These facilities are normally accessed with theaid of one of the approximately 750 terminals on campus. With thesupport of Weeg computing Center the department of politicalscience convinced the university administration that it would beworthwhile experimenting with desk top computers for an entiredepartment. Money was made available, and 37 computers werepurchased. Which brought us to the two problems: high speed (inthis case 2400 bits per second) communication; and a coherentsystem of programs.
Commodore 8032s were purchased, and this meant that we needed aninterface which would translate into the serial signal the Gandalfsystem used. Several interfaces were available commercially, but wecould not make any of them work at 2400 bits per second. Nor couldwe get the terminal emulator programs available commercially toprint the screen at 2400 bits per second. The dominant speed inmicro to larger computer communication is 300 b.p.s., fast means1200 bits per second. An interface board was designed by theelectronics shop at the University for us, and a machine languageprogram was written which would handle sending and receiving at therequisite speed. In principle this seemed a straightforward task.In practice there was a stream of nitty gritty problems that seemedas though it would go on forever. But it was done.
Three design considerations dominated the creation of thesoftware system. One, it had to be as simple to use as possible.Half of the potential users had never used a computer before. Thatimplied that the system must be as automatic as possible. Two, ithad to, initially, provide a terminal to each user plus handle wordprocessing and electronic mail for the department. Three, it had toallocate tasks between the desk top computers and the Weeg suppliedcomputers in a way that, within reasonable bounds, maximized thework done on the desk top computers and minimized use of centralresources.
Two features of the system illustrate our attempt to make it aseasy to use as possible. First, signing on to the central computeris almost automatic. Each person's copy of the machine languageprogram contains their four codes required to sign on to thesystem. The individual can send these codes by pressing the controlkey and the up arrow or programs developed for this system willautomatically send these codes. Signing off is equally automatic.When the Prime on the other end has finished sending or receiving aprogram or data it automatically signs off. Second, all choices aremade from two lists. One list is on the Prime, and the other listis embedded in the software used on the CBM 8032. Physicalcontiguity of choices reduces the amount of recall necessary to usethe system.
A good screen based text editing program enhances one's abilityto put words together. It does this by making it easy to write andrevise. However, there are many tasks, in addition to writing andrevising, that one needs to be able to carry out with the documentbeing written. You must be able to save and recall the text. It isvery nice to be able to append a second file to the one beingwritten. It is very nice to be able to save a segment of the filebeing written. And the text must be sent to be printed. All ofthese operations can be performed with the aid of the list ofcommands in the text editing program. One presses 's' and gives afile name; the programs do the rest. In addition, one would like tobe able to look at a list of files that have been created andsaved, delete files that are no longer needed, transfer a file tothe disk storage area of a collaborator for his or her review, senda file (program or program control information) to the batchprocessing system, and send a file directly from the disk to beprinted. All of these tasks can be performed using the list ofcommands on the Prime. Most of the operations one can imaginewanting to perform on a text file can be accomplished with one ofthe two lists. That makes the system easy to learn; it providescoherence.
In this system the Prime serves as the storage device and themedium of communication. Programs and text files are stored on thePrime disk; there are no disks for the desk top computers. Inaddition, sending a file to be printed or sending a file to acollaborator plus electronic mail are handled by the Prime. Thedesk top computers handle the writing and revising which is donewith a program written in BASIC to run on these computers. Sincewriting is an exceedingly important part of the job of academicsthe computers are on all the time. But most of the time they arenot on to the central computing resources; they are working asstand alone computers.
When you walk up and down the hall in the department ofpolitical science you see lots of computers going. Writing hasbecome much easier. And getting a final document produced has neverbeen as easy or as fast. The mini-micro connection works.