The assignments in CS1 and CS2 (introductory and intermediate programming) serve two important purposes. The obvious one is to teach students various language features and allow them to develop their programming skills. In addition, well-chosen assignments also teach students how computers are used in the world outside the classroom, and stimulate them to think about the ramifications of computerization in society. In many courses, students spend a large amount of their time on programming assignments, which determine a large portion of their grade. This self-moderated panel brings together three teachers who take different approaches to programming assignments in their classes. Mike Clancy will talk about the case studies approach. Rich Pattis will address assignments that involve software components. Mark Stehlik will talk about writing and enhancing a single program throughout the entire course. Besides describing the mechanics of their classes, and explaining the philosophy and implement ation of their approaches, the panelists will address the following topics: 1. Inspiration: where do assignments come from — programming books; problem books; articles in magazines; projects for other departments 2. Process: how to create a programming assignment — which comes first, the code or specification; judging difficulty; simplifying too-complicated assignments and complicating too-simple assignments 3. Deliverables: what do the students get — articles; problem description; design information; (partial) code; test data; solutions (when the assignment is finished) 4. Mechanics: conditions under which students produce their solutions — open/closed labs; partnerships; staff help; checking progress; midstream specification changes; solution turn-in procedures 5. Grading: what to evaluate, how and when — criteria for evaluation; feedback: online/offline, by whom, English vs. Numerical, time to complete, appeals; late programs 6. Miscellaneous issues — cheating, assignment reuse The panelists will each discuss one of their assignments in depth, supplying handouts of the materials that the students receive, plus a solution program. We will also hand out a bibliography of about two dozen problem books.