Last year we reported on the step by step procedure the Purdue University Computer Technolog y Department at Fort Wayne undertook to select an d install a PDP-ll mini-computer on a limite d budget .' In this article we describe our experience with the first course taught on the PDP-11. The course, entitled " Mini-Computer Organization and Programming, " was offered as a three-hour, one-semester course in the Spring of 1977. It was designed as a junior-level course for thos e interested in systems programming. Prior course s in both Assembler Language and Operating System s were required. The mini-computer used was a DEC PDP-11/0 3 with console terminal, dual diskette drives, an d 8K x 16-bit words of memory, running under DE C ' s RT-11 Operating System. During the semester, w e upgraded to 16K words and were able to use th e Macro Assembler. In offering the course we posed thre e questions to ourselves : (1) Given a studen t body in large part oriented toward busines s systems, MIS, high-level languages, and batc h processing, can we generate sufficient interes t in an Assembler-level, hands-on, systems-programming type course. (2) Given the sam e student body as (1) above, can we cover enoug h material in one semester to make the cours e reasonably self-contained and worthwhile. (3) Assuming we achieve (2) above, can we do i t well enough to generate a continuing audienc e for future courses. To help answer these questions, we used a class evaluation form (anonymous) which no t only requested ratings in various categorie s but also provided for and encouraged narrativ e description of good features of the course an d constructive criticism of aspects of the course no t up to expectations. Question (1) was answered early during registration when the course closed with 18 students. A better measure of the meaning of the number ca n be realized when one understands that a norma l enrollment in required junior courses (which thi s was not) is in the range of 12-15 students in th e Computer Technology Department .