This paper discusses the design and implementation of SEQ, a database system with support for sequence data. SEQ models a sequence as an ordered collection of records, and supports a declarative sequence query language based on an algebra of query operators, thereby permitting algebraic query optimization and evaluation. SEQ has been built as a component of the PREDATOR database system that provides support for relational and other kinds of complex data as well. that could describe a wide variety of sequence data, and a query algebra that could be used to represent queries over sequences [SLR95]. We had also observed that sequence query evaluation could benefit greatly from algebraic optimizations that exploited the order information [SLR94]. This paper describes the issues that were addressed when building the SEQ sequence database system based on these ideas. There are three distinct contributions made in this paper. (1) We describe the specification of sequence queries using the SEQUIN query language. (2) We quantitatively demonstrate the importance of various storage and optimization techniques by studying their effect on performance. (3) We present a novel nested design paradigm used in PREDATOR to combine sequence ‘and relational data. SEQ is a component of the PREDATOR* multi-threaded, client-server database system which supports sequences, as well as relations and other kinds of complex data. The system uses the SHORE storage manager library [CDF+94] for lowlevel database functionality like buffer management, concurrency control and recovery. A novel design paradigm provides query processing support for multiple data types, including both sequences and relations. The system implementation has been in progress for more than a year and is currently at approximately 35,000 lines of C++ code (excluding the SHORE libraries). In this paper, the focus is on the SEQ component which provides the S&QUZN language to specify declarative sequence queries, and an optimization and execution engine to process them. The PREDATOR system is described in detail in [Ses96], and only a high-level overview is presented here.