Non-malleable codes provide a useful and meaningful security guarantee in situations where traditional errorcorrection (and even error-detection) is impossible; for example, when the attacker can completely overwrite the encoded message. Informally, a code is non-malleable if the message contained in a modified codeword is either the original message, or a completely unrelated value. Although such codes do not exist if the family of "tampering functions" F is completely unrestricted, they are known to exist for many broad tampering families F. One such natural family is the family of tampering functions in the so called split-state model. Here the message m is encoded into two shares L and R, and the attacker is allowed to arbitrarily tamper with L and R individually. The split-state tampering arises in many realistic applications, such as the design of non-malleable secret sharing schemes, motivating the question of designing efficient non-malleable codes in this model. Prior to this work, non-malleable codes in the splitstate model received considerable attention in the literature, but were constructed either (1) in the random oracle model [16], or (2) relied on advanced cryptographic assumptions (such as non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs and leakage-resilient encryption) [26], or (3) could only encode 1-bit messages [14]. As our main result, we build the first efficient, multi-bit, information-theoretically-secure non-malleable code in the split-state model. The heart of our construction uses the following new property of the inner-product function ⟨L;R⟩ over the vector space Fnp (for a prime p and large enough dimension n): if L and R are uniformly random over Fnp, and f, g: Fnp → Fnp are two arbitrary functions on L and R, then the joint distribution (⟨L;R⟩, ⟨f(L), g(R)⟩) is "close" to the convex combination of "affine distributions" {(U, aU + b) --- a, b ε Fp}, where U is uniformly random in Fp. In turn, the proof of this surprising property of the inner product function critically relies on some results from additive combinatorics, including the so called Quasi-polynomial Freiman-Ruzsa Theorem which was recently established by Sanders [29] as a step towards resolving the Polynomial Freiman-Ruzsa conjecture [21].