is a supersetof the well known ELLPACK system [Rice 85]. The design of / jELLPACKis based on a scenario for future numericalsimulation systems whlch are ca­pable of accommodating users with different computational objectives andimplemented on a distributed hardware facility involving high power par­allel machines. Its design objective is to provide a uniform programmingenvironment for implementing parallel 1IH..ID PDE solvers, automatic par­titioning and allocation of the PDE computation. a very high level problemspecification language, an interactive high level environment for grid selec·tion. a domain partitioning and mapping facility, a uniform environment forobtainingsoftware engineering measurements, and a graphical display of thesolution output. The / /ELLPACK system is implemented on a hardwarefa­cility consistingofgraphics workstations supporting the Xll window systemand connected to NCUBE, ALLIANT and SEQUENT machines through awide bandwidth local network. Thesoftware infrastructure of/ /ELLPACKincludes i) a man machine interface consisting of a PDE problem orientedlanguage and Xll facilities for composing, editing and executing a / /ELL­PACK program, and geometry tools for specifying the PDE domain andits boundary conditions, .i.i) a PDE solution preprocessing subsystem capa­ble of automatically generating orthogonal meshes, a domain decomposi­tion tool for partitioning and allocation of the specified computations anda. PDE solution specification/selection too1. iii) the / /ELLPACK librariesfor each target parallel machine built assuming a hierarchical structure ofPDE solvers with fixed interfaces and iv) a PDE postprocessing subsystemconsisting offacilities to collect, analyze and visualize performance dataandtools for visualizing the computed solution.This paper is organized as follows: Sections 2 and 3 describe our see·nario for future numerical simulation systems and hardware facilities. Thesoftware infrastructure of / /ELLPACK is presented in Section 4. The de­scription of the various software components is described in Sections 5 to 8.Thefinal version ofthis paper will include performance datafor the NCUBEhardware.1