A skew-symmetric graph (D=(V,A),σ) is a directed graph D with an involution σ on the set of vertices and arcs. Flows on skew-symmetric graphs have been used to generalize maximum flow and maximum matching problems on graphs, initially by Tutte and later by Goldberg and Karzanov. In this article, we introduce a separation problem, d-Skew-Symmetric Multicut, where we are given a skew-symmetric graph D, a family τ of d-size subsets of vertices, and an integer k. The objective is to decide whether there is a set X ⊑ A of k arcs such that every set J in the family has a vertex υ such that υ and σ(υ) are in different strongly connected components of D′=(V,A \ (X ∪ σ(X)). In this work, we give an algorithm for d-Skew-Symmetric Multicut that runs in time O((4d)k(m+n+ℓ)), where m is the number of arcs in the graph, n is the number of vertices, and ℓ is the length of the family given in the input. This problem, apart from being independently interesting, also captures the main combinatorial difficulty of numerous classical problems. Our algorithm for d-Skew-Symmetric Multicut paves the way for the first linear-time parameterized algorithms for several problems. We demonstrate its utility by obtaining the following linear-time parameterized algorithms: — We show that Almost 2-SAT is a special case of 1-Skew-Symmetric Multicut, resulting in an algorithm for Almost 2-SAT that runs in time O(4kk4ℓ), where k is the size of the solution and ℓ is the length of the input formula. Then, using linear-time parameter-preserving reductions to Almost 2-SAT, we obtain algorithms for Odd Cycle Transversal and Edge Bipartization that run in time O(4kk4(m+n)) and O(4kk5(m+n)), respectively, where k is the size of the solution, and m and n are the number of edges and vertices respectively. This resolves an open problem posed by Reed et al. and improves on the earlier almost-linear-time algorithm of Kawarabayashi and Reed. — We show that Deletion q-Horn Backdoor Set Detection is a special case of 3-Skew-Symmetric Multicut, giving us an algorithm for Deletion q-Horn Backdoor Set Detection that runs in time O(12kk5ℓ), where k is the size of the solution and ℓ is the length of the input formula. This gives the first fixed-parameter tractable algorithm for this problem answering a question posed in a work by Narayanaswamy et al. Using this result, we get an algorithm for Satisfiability that runs in time O(12kk5ℓ), where k is the size of the smallest q-Horn deletion backdoor set, with ℓ being the length of the input formula.