The covering Steiner tree problem is a common generalization of the k-MST and the group Steiner problems: Given an edge weighted graph, with subsets of vertices called the groups, azLd a requirement for each group which is an integer of value at most the size of the group, the problem is to find a minimum-weight tree such that for each group, at least as many nodes as its requirement are included in the tree. When all' requirements are equal to 1, we get the group Steiner problem, while if there is only group whose node set is all the vertices in the graph, and this group's requirement value is the integer k, the problem reduces to finding a minimum-weight tree containing k vertices. We present a polylogarithmic approximation algorithm for this problem which uses an integer linear programming formulation, and rounds the optimal fractional solution iteratively. One interesting feature of oar algorithm is that even though the optimal fractional value of the original LP formulation may be a very bad estimate of the optimal integral solution value, at least one of the formulations arising in one of the iterations of oar rounding estimates the optimal integral solution value well. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n 1.1 S t a t e m e n t o f t h e p r o b l e m . Let G = (V,E) be an undirected graph with a cost function c : E --> II~ defined on the edges. Let gx,. . ,gin C V be subsets of vertices. We call the sets gi groups. For each group gi a nonnegative integer ki, called the requirement of the group is specified this value for group i is at most Igil. The covering Steiner problem on G is the problem of finding a minimum-cost connected subgraph of G which contains at least ki vertices of group 9i for all i E {1 , . . .m}. We denote the size of the largest group by N, and the iargest requirement of a group by K . We call the group vertices terminals. The covering Steiner problem generalizes two different NP-hard network design problems that have been ~ t . of Math. Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University, Pi t tsburgh, PA 15213-3890. Work part ly done at Los Alamos National Laboratory. Supported by the NSF CAREER grant CCR-9625297 and the DOE Contract W-7405-ENG-36. konj evod@andrev, cmu. edu ?GSIA, Carnegie Mellon University, Pi t tsburgh, PA 152133890. Work partly done while visiting IBM SRC, New Delhi. Supported by the NSF CAREER grant CCR-9625297. ravi©cmu.edu studied recently, namely the k-MST problem (see Ravi, Sundaram, Marathe, Rosenkrantz and Ravi [16], Fischetti, Hamacher, Jornsten and Maffioli [9], Blum, Ravi and Vempala [6], and Garg [10]), and the group Steiner problem (see Reich and Widmayer [17], Garg, Konjevod and Ravi [12] and Charikar, Chekuri, Goel and Guha [7]). The k-MST problem is that of finding a minimumcost connected subgraph that contains at least k nodes in an undirected graph with nonnegative costs on edges. The covering Steiner problem reduces to the k-MST problem when there is only one group and when all the vertices in V belong to this group. This problem is NP-hard and the best-known approximation ratio for this problem currently is 2, using an algorithm of Garg [11], but see also papers of Arya and Ramesh [3] and Arora and Karakostas [2]. This problem is solvable in polynomial time in some special cases, e.g. if the underlying graph is a tree. The group Steiner problem is the restriction of the covering Steiner problem where all group requirements are 1. This problem is at least as hard to approximate as the set cover problem, because even the special case where the underlying graph is a star-tree contains the set cover problem (Klein and Ravi [14]). Approximation algorithms for the group Steiner problem with polylogarithmic approximation ratios were presented in [12] (randomized) and [7] (deterministic). 1.2 R e s u l t s . Our central result is a randomized approximation algorithm for the covering Steiner problem on a tree with an approximation guarantee of O(logNlogmlogK) Here, N denotes the maximum size of a group (which in turn is at most n, the total number of nodes), K denotes the maximum requirement value of any group (which in turn is at most N) and m denotes the number of groups. For the group Steiner problem where K = 1, this approximation ratio matches the best-known ratio. We can t ransform the problem in any metric to one on a tree, with a worsening in the performance ratio, by using the technique of Bartal [5] and Charikar, Chekuri, Goel and Guha [7]. This then leads to an approximation algorithm for the general covering Steiner problem with approximation guarantee of O(log n log log n log N log m log K) . Using im-