Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellite networks require a reliable handover m-routing protocol that is critical for connections with multihop intersatellite links (ISLs). In this paper, we introduce a footprint handover m-route protocol (FBI@) that maintains the optimality of the initial route without performing a routing algorithm after satellite handovers. Furthermore, the FBRP handles the inter-orbit handover problem. The FBFP makes use of the footprints of the satellites in the initial route as the reference for m-routing. More specifically, after an optimum route has been determined during the call establishment process, the FBFW ensures that the new route due to handover is also optimum. The FHFtP is applicable to any type of connectionoriented networks. The adaptation of the FBRF’ to the widely accepted ATM technology, which will be employed in future satellite networks, is also addressed in thii paper. The FI-IFW demands easy processing, signaling, and storage costs. The performance results show that the FBI@ performs similar to a network without any handovers in terms of call blocking probability. instantaneous traflic overload of the terrestrial wireless nctwork. In other words, mobile users would alternatively a~cess a terrestrial or a satellite network through dual-modo handheld terminals. In the latter application area, LEO satellites would cover regions where terrestrial wireless systems are economically infeasible due to rough terrain or insufficient user population. The term LEO is used to classify satellites with orbiting altitudes between 500 and 2000 km above the Earth’s surface. This low altitude provides small end-to-end delays and low power requirements for both satellites and terminals. As Figure 1 depicts, users can access LEO satellites with their small handheld phones. Moreover, the satellites can be connected to terrestrial networks via gateways. Another feature of LEO satellites is that intersatellite links (ISL) allow the routing of a connection through the satellite network without requiring any terrestrial resources. To achieve the routing capability, the satellites have to carry packet switches on-board [9, 11, 131