Standard Information Retrieval (IR) deals with documents as they were atomic entities, indexing and retrieving them as single objects. However, modern IR needs to be able to deal with more elaborate document representations, like for example structured documents, that is documents that are organised around a well defined structure. The increasingly popular SGML, HTML, or XML are formalisms that enable to represent and describe such documents. These new standards in structured document representation compel IR to design and implement models and tools to index and retrieve documents according to the given document structure. This means that documents should no longer be considered as atomic entities, but as aggregates of interrelated objects that need to be indexed, retrieved, and presented both as a whole and separately, in relation to the their structure and the user’s needs. Given the complexity of the IR task, interactivity has been widely recognised as a very effective way of improving information access performance. A good user interface enables the IR process to be highly interactive. In structured document retrieval, the need for a good interface between user and system becomes even more pressing. Structured documents are often long and complex and it has been observed that a certain form of disorientation occurs in situations where the user does not understand why certain documents appear in the retrieved list [1]. This user disorientation makes the task of query reformulation much harder, since the user has first to understand the response of the system and then to decide if any of the retrieved document is a good enough representation of the information need to provide the system with precise relevance feedback. This added difficulties obviously increase the cognitive load of the user and decrease the quality of the interaction with the system. An approach to this problem consists in providing the IR system with a graphical user interface (GUI) with explana-