Addendum to the Proceedings Invited la/k-" The End of History, " in which he asserted that recent dramatic world events, including the dissolution of the USSR, represented a fundamental and final change in the evolution of governments. In 1992, he expanded upon this article in his book The End of History and the Last Manl. His observations regarding the state of global affairs and the role of the individual in such matters have a intriguing parallel to the growth and maturation of object-oriented technology. the creation of new economic markets, and, ultimately, directly influence the quality of life for the individual. The second motor of history is the individual's struggle for recognition. This innate drive for significance and meaning in the presence of a much larger and potentially dehumanizing society causes individuals to fight for human dignity, to rise above their current conditions, and in the process, change themselves and often change the nature of the social institutions around them. Consider for a moment Fukuyama's premises. He suggests that there are two motors of history, which drive the evolution of all social institutions. First, there is the logic and direction of modem science. Scientific inquiry is a rational process whose resulting knowledge is cumulative and, ultimately, irreversible (although some knowledge may be " lost, " the underlying truths upon which this knowledge is founded persist, leading to their eventual " rediscovery "). The fruits of science greatly affect the distribution and efficient use of scarce human and natural resources, serve as a tool for governments (particularly, as a means of affecting the outcome of military actions), permit Fukuyama observes that these two forces tend to drive even culturally disparate societies toward capitalist democracies2. Consider, for example, the rate at which free international markets and representative governments have been adopted during the past few decades. Today, democratic government is the dominant social structure, whereas in the 1700's, such structures were largely experimental Fukuyama speaks of this as marking the end of history, because it represents a logical, stable, and final social organizatiod. Fukuyama goes on to 2 Capitalist, in the sense of supporting free market economies; democratic, in the sense of establishing a participatory form of government. 3 As Larry Constantine has pointed out to me, we must always be wary of such sweeping conclusions. Every age has generally viewed itself as the pinnacle of human achievement, which no future generation …