and Use Operating Systems (OS) is an essential course in computer science education. In this paper, we describe three course projects which use UNIX @ as their basis. We discuss the objectives underlying the design of these projects, and the ways in which these projects provide students with links among theory, practice and use of OS. 1 Introduction In Operating Systems (OS) courses, providing students with opportunities to engage in practical projects is essential for grasping the underlying theoretical concepts [12, 13], Project environments in operating system courses have taken many forms. The use of simulated machines as the basis for students projects has spanned over a decade [13, 14]. More recently, instructional systems have been developed which simulate and graphically display the actions of an operating system and allow students to change parameters and modify algorithms [1, 4]. Addltionatly, the widespread availability of low cost computer systems has provided environments in which students can develop simple, complete operating systems [7, 7, 10] as well as environments in which students can study and modify simple, but fully functional, operating systems [2, 6, 12]. In this paper, we discuss three projects used recently in our OS course. The projects use UNIX as their basis. The first project makes use of UNIX system calls, the second project involves implementation of a UNIX command with which the students are familiar as users, and the third project involves actual modification of UNIX source code. The objectives of these projects are threefold (1) The project experience should clearly integrate with class presentations and discussions, enrich students' understanding of these concepts, and enhance their appreciation for the theory which provides the framework for implementation. (2) The project experience should allow students to see the underlying complexities of OS and help them gain insight into what they may encounter if Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice ie given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. their future studies or work is in the field of OS. (3) The project experience should provide students a context to understand more clearly their experiences as users of OS. …