Recently, several query languages have been proposed for querying information sources whose data is not constrained by a schema, or whose schema is unknown. Examples include: LOREL (for querying data combined from several heterogeneous sources), W3QS (for querying the World Wide Web); and UnQL (for querying unstructured data). The natural data model for such languages is that of a rooted, labeled graph. Their main novelty is the ability to express queries which traverse arbitrarily long paths in the graph, typically described by a regular expression. Such queries however may prove difficult to evaluate in the case when the data is distributed on severalsites, with many edges going between sites. A typical case is that of a collection of WWW sites, with links pointing freely from one site to another (even forming cycles). A naive query shipping strategy may force the query to migrate back and forth between the various sites, leading to poor performance (or even non-termination). We present a technique for query decomposition, under which the query is shipped exactly once to every site, computed locally, then the local results are shipped to the client, and assembled here into the final result. This technique is efficient, in that (a) only data which is part of the final result is shipped from the data sites to the client site, and (b) the total work done locally at all sites does not exceed that needed for computing the (unoptimized) query on a centralized version of the database. Permission to copy without fee 011 or part of this material is granted provided that the copies ore not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice io given that copy’ng is by.permi.vsion of the Very Large Data Bose Endowment. To copy otherwise, or to republish, require8 o fee and/or special permission from the Endowment. Proceedings of the 22nd VLDB Conference Mumbai(Bombay), India, 1996 We also show that the query decomposition technique can be adapted to derive a simple view maintenance method, for two forms of updates which we introduce for the graph data model.