1 Introduction Complex financial products and trading applications are difficult to model and implement in conventional commercial databases due to temporal, object, rule and other data support requirements. Extensible database systems provide a better solution because of the ability to define complex data types, manipulate data of type procedure , define rules, operators and access methods to optimize these operators. The paper discusses the design issues in modeling financial trading systems in extensi-ble DBMS. The complexity of financial products is analyzed and strategies for modeling these products are pro posed. Operators relevant to financial trading are discussed alongwith access methods to optimize these operators. The paper describes an implementation of a financial trading system in POSTGRES. Since 1971, after the breakdown of the Bretton WoodswANK system of fixed exchange rates, financial markets have seen a sharp increase in the fluctuation of interest rates and exchange rates. The past 20 years have also seen rapid advances in information technology that make it possible to collect and process large amounts of data. These events, when coupled with the sophistication of financial theory, have created a marketplace of a vast array of financial products that cater to different investment needs. Financial Trading Applications, which are meant to facilitate trading in these products, have also become very complex because : There are a variety of complex financial products available and the dynamic nature of the market, coupled with a decrease in regulation, has created a situation in which new products are introduced often and old ones discontinued. Trading strategies are baaed on numerically intensive procedures and complex mathematical relationships between financial products. The decrease in the cost of telecommunications and the increased reliability of networks make profitable trading opportunities available only for short periods of time. of Energy under Contract DEACO3-76SFWOQS. Pennirrion to copy witliout fee all or part of tlir material ir granted provided tlat tAc copier are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, tAc VLDB copyriglt notice and tAe title of the publitaiion and iir date appear; and notice in given tAat copying ir by pemaierion of tAe Ver) Large Data Base Endowmeni. To copy oiAetwire, or to republirl, reqmiree e fee and/or rpecial permiraion from tAc Endowment. The proliferation of financial products, increase in information and rapid advances in technology keep trading houses and investment firms under constant pressure to develop new ad-hoc applications for financial trading support. These …