Substantial progress was made in implementing design aids during the 1970s; however, the development of new aids must be accelerated during the 1980s to support circuit designs of VLSI complexity. New design aids-will be required because of (1) increased design complexity, (2) scarcity of design engineers, (3) need to reduce circuit design time and cost, and (4) increased emphasis in producing error-free manufacturable designs. The reduction of fabrication costs will become more important as processing equipment costs and the sophistication of individual processing steps continues to increase to support VLSI complexity circuits. These design and manufacturing problems can be solved only by increasing the use of design automation and improving the design aids.
 Although aids to support LSI designs have been developed and are widely available, extensions will be required to improve performance; aids in this category include: circuit analysis, logic simulation, and gate array layout aids, design rule checking, and pattern generation. New design aids for VLSI must be developed to exploit the hierarchical design approach from initial design definition through circuit synthesis, simulation, layout, and verification. The following areas require new design aids with new concepts and approaches: high-level description languages, modeling and simulation, generalized layout methods, high-level fault modeling and testing, and design methodologies for complex systems. These aids can be used to design VLSI circuits in a top-down design sequence followed by a bottom-up implementation using basic devices, cells, and modules to construct larger modules and assemblies. Because of layout restrictions and the emphasis on density, the use of gate arrays will decline. At each level in the design hierarchy, the new aids must support a design language for system specification, partitioning, synthesis, simulation, layout, and verification to refine the design in increasing detail. Although the goal will be a completely automated system, practical limitations will require designer interaction.