This paper describes a natural language processing system reinforced by the use of association of words and concepts, implemented as a neural network. Combining an associative network with a conventional system contributes to semantic disambiguation in the process of interpretation. The model is employed within a kana-kanji conversion system and the advantages over conventional ones are shown. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n Currently, most practical applications in natural language processing (NLP) have been realized via symbolic manipulation engines, such as grammar parsers. However, the current trend (and focus of research) is shifting to consider aspects of semantics and discourse as part of NLP. This can be seen in the emergence of new theories of language, such as Situation Theory [Barwise 83] and Discourse Representation Theory [Kamp 84]. While these theories provide an excellent theoretical framework for natural language understanding, the practical treatment of context dependency within the language can also be improved by enhancing underlying component technologies, such as knowledge based systems. In particular, alternate approaches to symbolic manipulation provided by connectionist models [Rumelhart 86] have emerged. Connectionist approaches enable the extraction of processing knowledge from examples, instead of building knowledge bases manually. The model described here represents the unification of the connectionist approach and conventional symbolic manipulation; its most valuable feature is the use of word associations using neural network technology. Word and concept associations appear to be central in human cognition [Minsky 88]. Therefore, simulating word associations contributes to semantic disambiguation in the computational process of interpreting sentences by putting a strong preference to expected words(meanings). The paper describes NLP reinforced by association of concepts and words via a connectionist network. The model is employed within a NLP application system for kana-