The LovAsz Local Lemma (LLL) is a powerful tool tha t is increasingly playing a valuable role in computer science. It has led to solutions for numerous problems in many different areas, reaching from problems in pure combinatorics to problems in routing, scheduling and approximation theory. However, since the original lemma is non-constructive, many of these solutions were first purely existential. A breakthrough result by Beck and its generalizations have led to polynomial t ime algorithms for many ~f these problems. However, these methods can only be applied to a simple, symmetric form of the LLL. In this paper we provide a novel approach to design polynomialt ime algorithms for problems tha t require the LLL in its general form. We apply our techniques to find good approximate solutions to a large class of NP-hard problems called minimax integer programs (MIPs). Our method finds approximate solutions tha t are especially for problems of non-uniform character significantly bet ter than all methods presented before. To demonstrate the applicability of our approach, we apply it to transform important results in the area of job shop scheduling tha t have so far been only existential (due to the fact tha t the general LLL was used) into algorithms tha t find the predicted solutions (with only a small loss) in polynomial time. Fhrthermore, ¢Work par t ly done while the author was with Heinz Nixdorf Inst i tute and Depar tment of Mathematics and Computer Science at the Paderborn University, Germany. *Research part ial ly suppor ted by DFG-Sonderforschungsbereich 376 "Massive Parallelit/it: Algorithmen, Entwurfsmethoden, Anwendungen." tSee w~w.upb, d e / c s / c h r s c h . h t r a l for a full version of this paper. Permission to make digital or hard copies ofali or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the lull citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. STOC 2000 Portland Oregon USA Copyright ACM 2000 1-58113-184-4/00/5...$5.00 we demonstrate how our results can be used to solve satisfiability problems.