It is a well-known challenge to learn an unbiased ranker with biased feedback. Unbiased learning-to-rank(LTR) algorithms, which are verified to model the relative relevance accurately based on noisy feedback, are appealing candidates and have already been applied in many applications with single categorical labels, such as user click signals. Nevertheless, the existing unbiased LTR methods cannot properly handle continuous feedback, which are essential for many industrial applications, such as content recommender systems. To provide personalized high-quality recommendation results, recommender systems need model both categorical and continuous biased feedback, such as click and dwell time. As unbiased LTR methods could not handle these continuous feedback and pair-wise learning without debiasing often performs worse than point-wise on biased feedback, which is also verified in our experiments, training multiple point-wise rankers to predict the absolute value of multiple objectives and leveraging a distinct shallow tower to estimate and alleviate the impact of position bias has been the mainstream approach in major industrial recommendation applications. However, with such a training paradigm, the optimization target differs a lot from the ranking metrics valuing the relative order of top-ranked items rather than the prediction precision of each item. Moreover, as the existing system tends to recommend more relevant items at higher positions, it is difficult for the shallow tower based methods to precisely attribute the user feedback to the impact of position or relevance. Therefore, there exists an exciting opportunity for us to get enhanced performance if we manage to solve the aforementioned issues. Accordingly, we design a novel unbiased LTR algorithm to tackle the challenges, which innovatively models position bias in the pairwise fashion and introduces the pairwise trust bias to separate the position bias, trust bias, and user relevance explicitly and can work for both continuous and categorical feedback. Experiment results on public benchmark datasets and internal live traffic of a large-scale recommender system at Tencent News show superior results for continuous labels and also competitive performance for categorical labels of the proposed method.