In the paper shows, that one of the important directions of the development of the electric power industry both in the world and in Ukraine is the improvement and construction of electric power networks and systems according to the Smart Grid concept. The main idea of such systems is a reliable, energy-efficient and high-quality energy supply, which based on the growing role of management as a leading factor in the innovative development of electric power and the construction of high-performance information and computing infrastructure. One of the main components of Smart Grid is the diagnosis of emergency modes and damage monitoring. This is because damage to electrical networks affects the quality and reliability of electricity supply to consumers. Therefore, the task of quickly and accurately determining the place of damage is important. The effective solution of this problem gives a significant economic effect due to the reduction of power supply interruptions, the reduction of transport costs for bypassing electrical networks, and the minimization of the total time for the organization of repair and restoration works. It shown that one of the ways to increase efficiency is the use of means of identifying emergency conditions in sections of both cable and overhead electrical networks. A diagram of the location of damage indicators on the section of the electrical distribution network presented, which allows determining the direction of the search for the location of the damage. A comparative analysis of current measuring transformers of optical and electromagnetic type carried out. It shown that a significant number of advantages of optical measuring current transformers, which can be used in damage indicators, can be provided by measuring current transformers of the electromagnetic type. It is shown that in order to ensure the creation of a damage indicator based on the Smart Grid concept, which allows to reduce the time of searching for the cause and location of an emergency situation to a minimum, as well as to ensure connection to operating overhead and cable lines without removing voltage by connecting the output of the secondary winding of the measuring current transformer of the detachable design to the measuring converters directly placed near the current measuring transformers with the help of a mechanical spring fastener. A block diagram of a specialized information and measurement system with a damage indicator was created, taking into account the requirements of the Smart Grid concept, which allows to reduce the time of searching for the cause to a minimum.