In this paper, we propose a simple framework for effec tive search specification on a continuous media. In the framework, a continuous media is modeled as a string of attribute symbols called J-string. Based on the observation that annotation for both an interval of and a specific point of continuous media is necessary, we identify two types of attribute symbols: a symbol for a finite time interval, and a symbol for an instant. As a simple scheme for search specification for X-string, we propose J-regular expression, which is a natural ex tension to the reguleir expression. After presenting a non-deterministic behavioral model of X-automaton, we give a tractable recognition algorithm. The algorithm has been implemented in constraint-logic programming language CLP(72.), and we show the effec tiveness of the framework with various examples. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n Continuous media are now abound in the multimedia world. Video and audio data serve as a general container for a wide range of contents such as news, drama, anima tions, music, and so on. There also exist domain specific continuous media such as the earthquake waveform in seismology, and the electrocardiographical record. With the progress in the data capturing, storage, processing and communication technology, these media are form ing large archives. Now, the demand is on an effective way for searching a portion in the current interest from the archives. In this paper, we propose a framework in which users can express their intentions easily and nat urally. Emphasis is put on the logical expressibility. We do not discuss a fancy user interface, nor a physical ac cess method in this paper. We describe the framework rather formally, so that it serves as the foundation for further study. l*cmiis.sion to make digital 1iard copies oral! or pail ol'lhis material Idr personnl or classroom use is granted without fee provided that the copies are not made or di.strihuted tor profit <ir commercial advantage, the copv-rigln notice, the title ofthe puhlication and its ilate appear, and notice is given that copyright is hy pennission ofthe .-VCM. Inc. To copy othem ise. to rcpuhli.sh. to po.st on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires specific permission and/or fee.