While individual parallel I/O systems can incorporate sophisticated techniques and achieve impressive performance in particular situations, researchers as yet have only limited m~derstanding of the impact of various design decisions or of the techniques required for performance robustness. One remedy is to perform detailed comparative studies of different I/O libraries. In this paper, we describe such a study for the Disk Resident Array and Panda libraries, both designed to support high-performance I/O for arrays. While the two systems have many similarities, their designs and implementations are based on different assumptions and target different applications. We base our study on two I/O structures commonly encountered in scientific applications: the collective read/write of an entire array and the collective read/write of an arbitrary array section. Experiments are performed on two parallel file systems (IBM PIOFS and Intel PFS) antI one commodity Unix file system (AIX JFS). Our results yield insights into Research at UIUC was supported by by NASA under grant NACiW .42.4.4 and NCCS 106. Work at ANL was supported by the Mathematical, Information, and Computational Sciences DiviGon subprogram of the Office of Computational and Technology Research, U.S. Department of Energy, under Contract W-3110%Eng-38, and by the Scalable I/O Initiative. a multi-agency project funded by DARPA, DOE. NASA, and NSF. Work at PNNL was supported by the High Performance Computing and Communications Program of the Office of Computational aud Technology Reseirrch, U.S. Department of Energy under contract DE-AC066-76RL01830 with Battellc IGemorial Institute which operates the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. Computing facilities were provided by NASA Ames Numerical Aeronautic Simulation (NAS) Division, Argonne National Laboratory. and California Institute of Technology. Permission to make digital/hard copies of all or part of this material for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that the copia ‘are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage, the copyright not&, tbe title of the publication and its date appear. and notice is given that copyright is by permission of the ACM, Inc. To copy otherwise. to republish to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires specific permission md/or fee KS 97 Vienna Austria Copyright 1997 ACM 0-R9791-902-5/97/7..%3.50 the major parameters determining the performance of array-oriented collective I/O.