The computational complexity of Volterra integral equations of the second kind and of the first kind is investigated. It is proved that if the kernel functions satisfy the Lipschitz condition, then the solutions of Volterra equations of the second kind are polynomial-space computable. If, on the other hand, the kernel functions only satisfy the local Lipschitz condition with the Lipschitz constants growing in an exponential rate, then the solutions could be exponential-time hard. We identify a class of Volterra equations of the first kind that can be converted to Volterra equations of the second kind satisfying the local Lipschitz condition. The complexity of the solutions of these equations is also proved to be exponential-time hard. 1. Int reduction Two important classes of integral equations are Volterra integral equations of the first kind J Y ~(u s, +(s)) d~ =j (Y), o~y<l, (1) o and Volterra integral equations of the second kind O(Y) = f(Y) + iv K(Y, ', d(')) ds, o<y< l,(2) where function ~ is to be solved from given functions K and f. While many numerical algorithms for Volterra Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise , or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. equations of the second kind have been proposed and studied (see, e.g., Tricomi [1957], Miller [1971] and Baker [1977]), very few general algorithms for Volterra equations of the first kind are known. It is generally recognized that Volterra equations of the first kind are much more difficult to solve than Volterra equations of the second kind. In thk paper, we apply discrete complexity theory to study the complexity of these integral equations. We demonstrate that, in the general cases, the complexity of the solutions for equation (2) is indeed lower than the complexity of the solutions for equation (l). In addition, our main results also show that the Lipschitz condition is critical for the equations to have solutions of reasonable complexity. In order to study the complexity of the solutions 1#1 of these equations, we must first specify the computational model for real-valued functions. The computational model to be used is …