Today’s Internet economy has primed customers to expect immediate access and immediate results. But instant results are difficult to achieve when your customers want up-to-the-minute information about themselves: account balances, detailed transactional histories across all products, immediate problem resolution, and recommended advice on future purchases. Their expectation is that they will get the same interaction with your company whether they communicate with you via telephone, the web, a kiosk, or e-mail. To retain customers and make better decisions, businesses must step up the pace. Customers and systems need access to events – like orders, shipments, and payments – the moment they occur. They need to be able to act on events automatically, in real time. The prescription: a “Zero Latency Enterprise”. 1. The ZLE Challenge From an IT perspective, the challenge is twofold: integrating customer and product information scattered in disparate systems throughout the enterprise, and acting on it in real time. The first challenge, integrating customer and product information scattered in disparate systems throughout the enterprise, focuses on enterprise application integration (EAI). EAI instantaneously transform decisions and information into operational changes by “pushing” information to where it is needed. The second challenge, instant access, analysis, and reaction to information, has been addressed traditionally by using business intelligence technologies, such as data marts, data warehouses, and operational data stores (ODS). Of particular need is a data-centric ODS that is a central, operations-focused data store fed in near real time by all of the other databases in the enterprise. This ODS could provide a central repository from which users and applications “pull” information as needed. The problems with these traditional approaches is that they don’t address the challenge of minimizing the lag, or information float, between when the data is captured in one place and when it can be used somewhere else. Each approach has its limitations; most organizations require a combination of the two – a real time ODS combined with EAI. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Very Large Data Base Endowment. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or special permission from the Endowment. Proceedings of the 26 VLDB Conference, Cairo, Egypt, 2000