Scientists largely explain observations by inferring causal relationships among measured variables. Many algorithms with various theoretical foundations have been developed for causal induction e.g., (Spirtes, Glymour, & Scheines 1993; Pearl & Verma 1991), but it is widely believed that regression is ill-suited to the task of causal induction. Multiple regression techniques attempt to estimate the influence that regressors have on a dependent variable using the standardized regression coefficient, p. Assuming the relationship among variables is linear, pyx measures the expected change in Y produced by a unit change in X with all other predictor variables held constant. Arguments against using regression methods for causal induction rest on the fact that the error in estimating pyx can be large, particularly when unmeasured or latent variables account for the relationship between X and Y, or when X is a common cause of Y and another predictor (Mosteller & Tukey 1977; Spirtes, Glymour, & Scheines 1993). In fact, p may suggest X has a strong influence on Y when it has little or none. We have developed a regressionbased causal induction algorithm called FBD (Cohen et ol. 1994) which performs well in these situations. The heuristic that is primarily responsible for making FBD less sensitive to the above problems is the w score. Let rx y be the correlation between X and Y, and w = (ryx @yx)/ryx. w measures the proportion of ryx not due to the direct effect of X on Y. If wyx exceeds a threshold, X is pruned from the set of candidate predictors. This threshold is set arbitrarily by the user, but we are exploring the use of clustering algorithms to set it by partitioning the w values of the predictor variables. Spirtes et al. describe four causal models (1993, p. 240) for which their studies showed regression methods performed poorly by always choosing predictors whose relationship to the dependent variable is mediated by latent variables or common causes. One model is reproduced in Figure 1. The difficulty with this model is that the error in the estimate for px, y may be large due to X2’s relationship to X3 via the latent variable 2’1. To determine the susceptibility of FBD to latent variable effects, we tested the performance of FBD’ on latent variable models, and ran stepwise regressions as a control. Twelve sets of coefficients for the structural equations for