There has been tremendous interest in information integration systems that auto:matically gather, manipulate, and integrate data from multiple information sources on a user’s behalf. Unfortunately, web sites are primarily designed for human browsing rather than for use by a computer program. Mechanically extracting their content is in general a rather difficult job if not impossible [4]. Software systems using such web informa.tion sources typically use hand-coded wrappers to extract information content of interest from web sources and translate query responses to a more structured format (e.g., relational form) before unifying them into an integrated answer to a. user’s query. The most recent generation of information mediator systems (e.g., Ariadne [3], CQ [5, 71, Internet Softbots [4], TSIMMIS [2]) addresses this problem by enabling a pre-wrapped set of web sources to be accessed via database-like queries. However, hand-coding a wrapper is time consuming and error-prone. We have also observed that, by using a good design methodology, only a relatively small part of the code deals with t,he source-specific access details, the rest of the code is either common among wrappers or can be expressed in a high level, more structured fashion. As the Web grows, maintaining a reasonable number of wrappers becomes impractical. First, the number of information sources of interest to a user query can be quite large, even within a particular domain. Second, new information sources are constantly added on the Web. Thirdly, the content and presentation format of the existing information sources may change frequently and autonomously. With these observations in mind, we have developed a wrapper generation system, called XWrap, for semi-automatic construction of wrappers for Web information sources. The system contains a library of commonly used functions, such as receiving queries from applications, handling of filter queries, and packaging results. It also contains some source-specific facilities that are in charge of mapping a mediator query to a remote cormection call to fetch the relevant pages and translating the retrieve’d page(s) into a more structured format (such as XML documents or relational tables). A distinct feature of our wrapper generator is its ability to pro-