If p is a prime and n is a positive integer then the mod p counting principle for n (CPp,n) is the following statement: there are no two equivalence relations @ and @ on a set A of size n with the following properties: (a) each class of@ cent ains exactly p elements, and (b) each class of IO with one exception contains exactly p elements, the exceptional class contains 1 element. We will always assume that p is constant and n is sufficiently large. If we associate Boolean variables x ~, b, ya, b with all pairs formed from the elements of A then CPP,n can be expressed as a Boolean formula of constant depth and polynomial size. (We may think that a@b iff xa, h = 1, aQb iff Ya,b = 1.) This formula is a tautology. We show that if p, q are distinct primes then there is no constant depth polynomial (in n) size Frege proof of CF'P,n even if we are allowed to use CF'q,n as an axiom schema. (We get the axiom schema from C'Pg,n by replacing in every possible way the variables in G'pq,n by constant depth polynomial size fromulae formed from the variables used in the Frege proof. This schema says the if we define the partitions 0, W in an arbitrary but constant depth poly-size way they cannot contradict CPq, n). The new part of the proof (compared to earlier results about the Pigoenhole and Parity Principles) is the reduction of the problem to a theorem about the representations of the symmetric group over the field with p elements (or as we will formulate below a theorem about symmetric systems of linear equations), and the proof of this theorem. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association of Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. 1. A Frege proof system is a way of proving that a propositional formula is a tautol-ogy. First we give a finite set of axioms. E.g. q$ A ~ * ~ A @ is an axiom, more precisely we accept that if we replace # …