RoboCup 2016 in Leipzig, Germany will be the 20th annual international RoboCup competitions and symposium. Since the inaugural event at IJCAI 1997 during which three soccer competitions were held in half of a hotel ballroom, RoboCup has grown to include various competitions beyond soccer, and routinely fills a whole convention center. Accompanying the competition each year there has been a symposium with proceedings published in book format that include refereed technical contributions related to RoboCup and often, invited papers from that year’s champion teams. Full information about the history, mission, and organization of RoboCup is available at www.robocup.org. This paper does not recap these items. Rather, in the spirit of the AAAI “What’s Hot” track, the aim is to give an overview of the latest and most innovative developments, as well as highlighting some of the current and future challenges upon which today’s RoboCup participants are focused. By far the best way to experience what’s hot at RoboCup is to attend in person. With routinely more than 2,000 registered participants competing in more than ten different leagues and subleagues, each with its own rules and technical challenges, the four days of competition and subsequent symposium leave hardly enough time to fully appreciate all of the details. The reader with the time and resources is encouraged to stop reading here, and instead plan to attend (or better yet, participate in!) an upcoming RoboCup competition. One would expect to see: • Hundreds of fully autonomous robots all simultaneously executing complex sensing, decision-making, and acting; • Fast-moving, wheeled robots passing a ball with amazing precision; • Novel, award-winning, humanoid open platforms that can walk on artificial grass and stand up by themselves; • Innovative service robots communicating through speech and manipulating objects in unstructured environments; • Highly mobile rescue robots navigating over complex terrains in a NIST standard arena; • Complex, learned individual and multi-robot behaviors; • Many other technical AI and robotics achievements. For those who are not so fortunate to get firsthand experience, the remainder of this extended abstract, and accompanying talk at AAAI, aim to serve as a pale substitute. There are far too many RoboCup-related developments to cover all of