The static concepts of a semantic database model are formalized by axioms of first-order predicate calculus and set theory. Then, the basic operations are defined and, in order to maintain a database consistent, a set of dynamic axioms and side-effect axioms is stated using dynamic and temporal logic. The necessity and sufficiency of the dynamic rules is stated and an example shows how the side-effects works. I. PRELIMINARIES The informal philosophical background for the concepts of the Temporal-Hierarchic Data Model is an idea of the existence of three worlds: a concrete world of physical things, an abstract world of 'metaphysical' things and the model world in which we model or represent concrete and abstract things /BN, sc2/. From the first two, called real world, the part of interest for a specific application is the universe of discourse. In the model world we distinguish two levels /Su, BN, ANSI/, the conceptual and the internal level. There is a mapping from the universe of discourse to the conceptual level called representation. It maps objects to entities , object types to classes, properties and associations to relationships, processes to operations and ocurrences to events. The image of the complete universe of discourse gives the conceptual schema and the information base /ISO2/. The inverse of the representation is the interpretation of concepts from the model world. T financial support from the Stifterver-t+and der Deutschen Wissenschaften actually at Institut The theoretical basis is set theory and first order predicate calculus with extensions to dynamic and temporal logic. In order to facilitate the lecture and not exagerate formalization some trivial details are avoided and all not quantified variables are considered universally quantified. The static concepts of the data model are specified by a series of axioms which must hold in all states of the database. To guarantee this, restrictions on the basic operations are stated by dynamic axioms and single operations are extended to valid database transformations by so-called side-effect axioms. There is a general attempt to formalize the concepts of semantic data models /BM/ I as was done for TAXIS /BW, MW/ and SHM+ /Br/. The difference to the other approaches is that THM includes three abstractions with several special cases, time concepts and dynamic aspects (operations) with corresponding semantic side effects. Since all semantic models have several similarities the results of this paper can easily be used for other models. An informal introduction to …