Motivated by Manuel Blum’s concept of inst ante checking, we consider new, very fast and generic mechanisms of checking computations. Our results exploit recent advances in interactive proof protocols [LFKN], [Sh], and especially the MIP = NEXP protocol from [BFL]. WJe show that every nondeterministic computational task S(Z, y), defined as a polynomial time relation between the instance x, representing the input and output combined, and the witness y can be modified to a task S such that: (i) the same instances remain accepted; (ii) each instance/witness pair becomes checkable in poly!ogariihmic Monte Carlo time; and (iii) a witness satisfying S’ can be computed in polynomial time from a witness satisfying S. Here the instance and the description of S have to be provided in error-correcting code (since the checker will not notice slight changes). A modification of the MIP proof was required to achieve polynomial time in (iii); the earlier technique yields N“(*OglOg’1 time only. This result becomes significant if software and hardware reliability are regarded aa a considerable cost factor. The polylogarithmic checker is the only part of the system that needs to be trusted; it can be hard wired. (We use just one Checker for all problems!) The checker is tiny and so presumably can be optimized and checked off-line at a modest cost. In this setup, a single reliable PC can monitor the operation of a herd of supercomputers working with possibly extremely powerful but unreliable software and untested hardware. 1Research partially supported by NSF Grant CCR-871OO78. Email: laci@cs.uchicago. edu 2Rese~& partiay supported by NSF Grant CCR-SMXI$XEK5. E-mail: fortnow@cs.uc&cago. edu 3Supported by NSF grant CCR-SJC115276. E-mail: Lnd@cs.bu.edu 4111 cummington St., Boston MA 02215. 5E-mail: mario@cs.uchicago .edu ~1100 E 58th St, Chicago IL 60637. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this msterisl is granted provided that tie copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee snd/or specific permission. @ 1991 ACM 089791-397-31911000410021 $1.50 Leonid A. Levin 3