Research and development for textual data administration and for formatted database systems have traditionally been done separately. As a consequence, several features have been investigated and realised independently. For example, concurrent access to and update of information by many users is not provided in an information retrieval system (IRS). In fact, update of information during regular operating has long been considered unnecessary in an IRS. On the other hand, a database management system (DBMS) provides a 'multi-user environment', but in essence only for the administration of keyed or numerical (i.e. formatted) data and not for textual data. Textual data fields contain objects such as names, addresses, descriptive information, chemical formulas, etc. Such fields occur very often in database records, where they are administered in the same manner as numerical data. Common functions in an IRS such as retrieving a text via a number of character strings contained in it are supported neither by the available database query languages nor by the internal indexing techniques of a DBMS, and notions such as contents clustering or relevance, which are very important in an IRS, are disregarded in a DBMS. The following observations indicate that, nowadays, there is a trend towards an integrated database management and information retrieval system (DBMIRS): (1) Interactive usage of a DBMS grows. In addition to the regularly running transactions of well-defined application programs we have the spontaneously generated ad hoe transactions generated by interactive users in a problem solving model depending on the analysis of the results they have obtained so far (Blaser and Schauer, 1978; Erbe et al., 1980). This is exactly what we observe as common practice in IR. Query modification-often with a thesaurus-and feedback evaluation are classical fields in IR. In order to support interactive users of a DBMS, one tries to offer multi-attribute retrieval as well as partial range and nearest-neighbour searches for multi-dimensional numerical data. These functions, whose 218