Overview Pretenuring is a technique for reducing copying costs in garbage collectors. When pretenuring, the allocator places long-lived objects into regions that the garbage collector will rarely, if ever, collect. We extend previous work on profiling-driven pretenuring as follows. (1) We develop a collector-neutral approach to obtaining object lifetime profile information. We show that our collection of Java programs exhibits a very high degree of homogeneity of object lifetimes at each allocation site. This result is robust with respect to different inputs, and is similar to previous work on ML, but is in contrast to C programs, which require dynamic call chain context information to extract homogeneous lifetimes. Call-site homo-geneity considerably simplifies the implementation of pretenuring and makes it more efficient. (2) Our pretenuring advice is neutral with respect to the collector algorithm, and we use it to improve two quite different garbage collectors: a traditional generational collector and an older-first collector. The system is also novel because it classifies and allocates objects into 3 categories: we allocate immortal objects into a permanent region that the collector will never consider, long-lived objects into a region in which the collector placed survivors of the most recent collection, and short-lived objects into the nursery, i.e., the default region. (3) We evaluate pretenuring on Java programs. Our simulation results show that pretenuring significantly reduces collector copying for generational and older-first collectors. Generational copying garbage collection partitions the heap into age-based generations of objects, where age is measured in the amount of allocation (the accepted practice in the garbage collection literature). Collection consists of three phases: (1) identifying roots for collection; (2) identifying and copying into a new space any objects identified as 'live' through transitive reachability from those roots; and (3) reclaiming the space vacated by the live objects. Rather than collecting the entire heap and incurring the cost of copying all live objects upon each invocation, generational collectors collect the youngest objects in the heap, the nursery, and include successively older generations only if necessary. This basic approach has two problems. First, the collector may Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. copy long lived objects multiple times (into …