A flow is said to be confluent if at any node all the flow leaves along a single edge. Given a directed graph G with k sinks and non-negative demands on all the nodes of G, we consider the problem of determining a confluent flow that routes every node demand to some sink such that the maximum congestion at a sink is minimized. Confluent flows arise in a variety of application areas, most notably in networking; in fact, most flows in the Internet are confluent since Internet routing is destination based.We present near-tight approximation algorithms, hardness results, and existence theorems for confluent flows. The main result of this paper is a polynomial-time algorithm for determining a confluent flow with congestion at most 1 + ln(k) in G, if G admits a splittable flow with congestion at most 1. We complement this result in two directions. First, we present a graph G that admits a splittable flow with congestion at most 1, yet no confluent flow with congestion smaller than Hk, thus establishing tight upper and lower bounds to within an additive constant less than 1. Second, we show that it is NP-hard to approximate the congestion of an optimal confluent flow to within a factor of (lg k)/2, thus resolving the polynomial-time approximability to within a multiplicative constant. We also consider a demand maximization version of the problem. We show that if G admits a splittable flow of congestion at most 1, then a variant of the congestion minimization algorithm yields a confluent flow in G with congestion at most 1 that satisfies 1/3 fraction of total demand.We show that the gap between confluent flows and splittable flows is much smaller, if the underlying graph were k connected. In particular, we prove that k-connected graphs with k sinks admit confluent flows of congestion less than C + dmax, where C is the congestion of the best splittable flow, and dmax is the maximum demand of any node in G. The proof of this existence theorem is non-constructive and relies on topological techniques introduced in [16].