A new method for analysing the mixing time of Maxkov cbain.q is described. This method is an extension of path coupling and involves analysing the coupling over multiple steps. The expected behaviour of the coupling at a certain stopping time is used to bound the expected behaviour of the coupling after a fixed number of steps. We apply the new method to analyse the mixing time of the Glauber dynamics for graph eolourings. We show that the Glanber dynamics has O(nlog(n)) mixing time for triangle-free Aregular graphs ff k colours axe used, where k _> (2 r})A, for some small positive constant T}. This is the first proof of an optimal upper bound for the mixing time of the Glauber dynamics in the range k _< 2A. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n In this paper, a new method for analysing the mixing t ime of Markov chains is described. This method is a non-triviai extension of path coupling, and applies in situations where path coupling is not enough to prove rapid mixing. In our method, a coupling is run for a fixed number of steps, and the behaviour of the coupling at a random stopping time is examined. Standard pa th coupling is a worst-case analysis, in that it considers the the expected change in the distance between the worst possible pair of states over a single step. However, in a multiple-step analysis, the choice of the initial pair of states is mitigated by the random choices made by the first four authors axe partially supported by the ESPRIT Project RAND-II. ?dyer@sos.leeds. ac.uk, School of Computer Studies, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT U.K. $1eslie@dcs.wa.vwick.ac.uk, Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, U.K. Partially supported by the EPSRC grant GR/L60982 §¢sg®scs.leeds.ac.uk, School of Computer Studies, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, U.K. Partially supported by a Leverhulme Special Research Fellowship Im~cj@dcs.ed.ac.uk, Department of Computer Science, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh ED9 3JZ, U.K. llmichael~n@eecs, harvard, edu, Computer Science Department, Harvard University, Oxford St, Cambridge MA, 02138 U.S.A. coupling over several steps. Hence, with some constant probability, we are not in the worst case. This is how a multiple-step analysis can improve upon one-step pa th coupling. The approach of analyzing the behavior of a Markov chain over several steps has proved worthwhile in other settings. For example, it has been used to prove the stability of randomized bin-packing algorithms [6, 15, 1] and contention resolution protocols [13, 12]. Hence this approach appears to be a natural direction for coupling arguments as well. Czumaj et al. [7] introduced a framework for multiple-step couplings based on path coupling, which they call delayed path coupling. Their "delayed pa th coupling lemma" [7, Lemma 4.2] (reproduced below as Lemma 2.1) shows how the mixing t ime of a Markov chain can be bounded above in terms of the behaviour of a coupling over a fixed number of steps. However, the way in which the coupling is analysed over the fixed t ime interval is not specified, and Czumaj et al. give a few different applications. In some applications, they explicitly construct a non-Markovian coupling over the full time interval. The construction and analysis of such a coupling can be very complicated. However, we use straightforward path coupling to drive our multiple-step coupling, performing most of our analysis at a specially defined stopping time. The next section contains a description of this new method. We then apply our method to the problem of analysing the mixing time of the Glanber dynamics for graph colourings. A proper k-colouring of a graph G = (V, E) is a labelling of the vertices from a set of colours C = { 1 , . . . , k} such that no two neighboring vertices have the same colour. We consider the problem of sampling nearly uniformly from the set of all proper kcolourings of a graph of maximum degree A. Note tha t efficiently sampling k-colourings nearly uniformly allows one to approximately count such colourings [14]. This problem is interesting as a fundamental combinatorial problem, and it also relates to several problems in statistical physics; see [14, 19], for more details.