With the driving of experimental programs of Ministry of Education on the "e-Cainpiis", balance urban and rural digital divide" and "electronie schoolbag" in Taiwan, tbe Web sites and class blogs were set up one after another in primary school. However, all tbe experimental schools of Mobile learning or Ubiquitous learning were centralized in the urban area and a few schools, and tbe disciphne was developed to focus on tbe natural environment, plant learning and foreign language's ¡earning. By using the mobile platform learning system and handheld devices to support community-based learning for elementary school students, we want to combine the community learning issues into a cross-disciplinary integrated curriculum, and that will be able to stimulate the students' learning interest, to promote their positive learning attitude and problem-sohing ability in rural area primary school. W e selected tbe primary scbool students in Min-Hsiung. Cbia-yi County as tbe subjects of this study, This study combines REID technology with PDA device instruments to design an outdoor situated learning system, This system can help the fifth and siitb grade students of primary school use RFID Reader to access organically cultivated pineapple garden and general cultivated pineapple garden of situated learning by self-direction learning. In this study, the method of quasi-experimental research was used. Tbe pre-test and post-test were used to understand tbe learning outcomes of experimental group and control group, The pre-test of two groups have significant difference (t =−2.647. P<.01), but the post-test statistical results found the learning effectiveness between experimental group and control group bave not significant difference (r =−1.536, P>.05). Tbe learning satisfaction of experimental group students is 76% (M = 3.82, SD =.65). These results showed tbat the design of situated learning in mobile learning system can enhance the fifth and sixth grade students learn more effectively, and interest in learning.