With the popularity of android smartphone and the increasing number of the vehicles,the problems of obtaining real-time vehicle status information and historical trace information have attracted considerable attention. For these two problems, the vehicle monitoring system client running on android smartphone was designed and implemented, which utilizes the internet enabled smartphone and GPS position information. This friendly and strong system offers features such as login capability, real-time monitoring capability and the ability to query trace. The system has been realized on the Android mobile terminals and performs well. Introduction With the popularity of the vehicles, a series of problems, such as the traffic congestion and traffic accident, have occurred with the convenience. These problems have affected the healthy and harmonious development of the personality, enterprise and society to a certain extent. Hence, special customization and expensive vehicle terminal equipment [1] rapidly occupies the market. Under such circumstance, a vehicle monitoring system based on Android mobile devices [2] is proposed in this paper. It shows three significant characteristics: low cost, the system only requires a common android smartphone. Extensibility, the whole system is easy to extend for its modularization design. Real-time, show the vehicle physical position in real-time on the Baidu Map. The Design of the System The Physics Model of the System [3]. From a global perspective, the physics model of the system contains three parts: database, application server and android mobile terminal. The database is designed to store and manage all data used in the system such as username, password and GPS information. The application server, which is similar to a transfer station, selects database according to the client’s requirement, and then, transfers results to client through the Internet. The client receives data from server to analysis, handle and finally display results. The Logical Model of the System [4]. The logical model of the system contains three levels, namely the data layer, the business layer and the application layer. In the main, the application layer depends on the support offered the business layer and the data layer to show user’s location, vehicle’s location and historical trace of the vehicle. Fig. 1 shows the logical model of the system. International Conference on Information Science and Computer Applications (ISCA 2013) © 2013. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 294 Use r Login Real-time Positioning Real-time Monitoring History Trajectory Server Request Re sult D B 2 D B 1 ... ... D B n Application Layer