A warm welcome to the First ACM Workshop on Mobile Systems for Computational Social Science (MCSS'12) co-located with MobiSys'12. We are very excited to introduce you to the technical program of our workshop, which includes 7 papers, representing high-quality research conducted over a broad spectrum of topics related to mobile systems and computational social science. Each paper was reviewed by three members of our Technical Program Committee. 
 
For decades, behavioral scientists have struggled to understand the various factors that influence behavior. Observational and self-report methods have shed some light on those factors, but the nature of such methods can elicit responses that are not always completely accurate. Furthermore, such methods usually capture behavior as it occurs in a laboratory as opposed to behavior as it naturally occurs in everyday life. Recent advances in mobile technology provide some extremely powerful tools for overcoming these obstacles. Indeed, mobile phones represent an ideal platform for studying behavior and interactions in real-life contexts. There are many open challenges in terms of system design: for instance, since mobile phones are battery powered, efficient algorithms have to be developed to derive accurate inferences from sensor data, and cloud resources can be exploited to support complex computations. Given their diffusion, mobile phones allow to develop systems at scale, i.e., supporting mobile applications potentially used by millions of people at the same time. Data collected by means of mobile phones can then be used for analysis of human behavior and interactions. There are also many challenges in this area, especially related to the management of personal data and real-time processing of information. Mobile systems will represent a key foundational component of the emerging discipline of computational social science. We really hope that this workshop will be an opportunity to build a community around these themes. 
 
The workshop program has been structured into three technical sessions, namely, Social Sciences and Mobile Systems, Algorithms and Techniques for Computational Social Science and Applications and Deployments. Moreover, we organized two invited keynote sessions and a poster and demonstration session.