It is our great pleasure to present the proceedings of the 6th ACM EuroSys Conference on Computer Systems -- EuroSys 2011. We are confident that this year's conference continues to grow the reputation and influence of EuroSys with a set of excellent papers. These cover a wide range of topics, from real-world configuration management and debugging to hardware reliability, from mobile devices to clouds, from fault tolerance to energy management. 
 
This year's call for papers attracted a record number of 161 submissions, of which 78 came from North America, 49 from Europe, 25 from Asia, two each from South America and Australia, and one each from Central America and Africa. Seven papers were rejected for violating formatting requirements, which left 154 papers to be reviewed by the PC in two rounds with limited help from outside experts. In a first round of reviewing, each paper received a minimum of three reviews, leading to the elimination of 86 papers. Their authors were notified immediately, to maximise their opportunity to improve the paper for a possible re-submission to another conference. 
 
The remaining 68 papers each received a minimum of three further reviews in the second round, after which reviews were sent to authors for rebuttal. For the vast majority of papers the reviews were quite consistent, reflecting the quality and commitment of the PC members. In a few cases where there was significant disagreement between reviews, further reviews were obtained before the PC meeting. The vast majority of reviews were written by the PC members themselves. 
 
The rebuttal process was a first for EuroSys, and in a number of cases helped to provide valuable clarifications (including one case where a paper's strongest supporter downgraded their score after reading the rebuttal). A second novelty was the move to double-blind reviewing, where PC members did not know the authors of the papers they reviewed and discussed. Authors' identities were only revealed at the end of the PC meeting. There was strong consensus that this had worked well, that in the vast majority of cases PC members really did not know the origin of a paper and that this helped the PC to minimise bias. 
 
At the meeting, the PC applied very high quality standards, and in the end selected 24 papers. A particularly rigorous standard was applied to papers authored by PC members, and only two of nine such papers were accepted. Given the high standard applied, it is particularly pleasing that ten European papers were accepted, giving Europe the highest acceptance rate of all geographic regions. 
 
EuroSys 2011 takes place in Salzburg, Austria. The conference begins on April 10 with a day dedicated to workshops and tutorials held at the Faculty of Law of the University of Salzburg. In total, eight workshops and two tutorials have been selected to provide a forum for the latest research in multicore, cloud computing, embedded, security, and social network systems. The main conference is held on April 11-13 at the newly renovated Aula of the University of Salzburg across the street of the world-famous Festspielhaus. 
 
We hope that you will find these proceedings interesting and thought provoking, and that those who attend the conference and its associated workshops and tutorials will find this a stimulating experience.