It is our pleasure to welcome you to the Fourteenth International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS XIV). This year's symposium continues its tradition of being the premier forum for presentation of research results on leading edge issues that cross the boundaries of computer architecture, programming languages and compilers, and operating systems. 
 
The call for papers attracted abstracts from around the world and resulted in 113 full papers being submitted to the Program Committee (PC). This year we used Borbala Online Conference Services's CyberChairPRO submission and review software. Papers were submitted for double-blind review without authors' names or identifying information. PC members were limited to no more than two paper submissions; a total of 13 papers were submitted which had a PC members as a (co)author. The Program Chair assigned each paper to three reviewers from the PC and two external reviewers. 524 of the 543 assigned reviews were submitted, giving an impressive return rate of 96%. On papers where the Program Chair had a conflict-of-interest, Prof. Margaret Martonosi from Princeton chose the reviewer assignments and also ran the discussions at the PC meeting. Prior to the PC meeting, there was an author rebuttal period during which authors could see and respond to their reviews. 
 
The Program Committee met on Saturday, November 1, 2008 at the Chicago O'Hare Hilton. The PC discussed the most highly ranked 51 papers (including 10 PC papers) during the meeting. Each paper discussed had a PC member assigned as lead discussant. PC (co)authored papers were discussed as a group roughly midway through the meeting; these papers were held to a higher standard. The PC selected 29 papers (including 7 PC papers) for an acceptance rate of 25.7%. Seven of these papers were conditionally accepted with shepherding provided by a PC member to ensure that the final papers adequately addressed concerns expressed in the reviews. This year, for the first time, we decided to give a Best Paper Award selected by a sub-committee of the PC from papers nominated by the entire PC.