It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2nd ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on Programmable Routers for Extensible Services of TOmorrow -- PRESTO'09. There continues to be great interest in the networking research community in re-architecting the distribution of functions in IP networks. These efforts can be described as a dis-aggregation of router and switch functionality into various components and well-defined interfaces, towards the goals of deploying richer services and easing management of the network. Efforts in this space span the range from more sophisticated configuration interfaces, to open application programming interfaces (APIs) that allow specialized control and data plane functions on commercial routers, to open software, open firmware, and open hardware platforms that enable tremendous flexibility in the functionality of network equipment. While these open interfaces continue to evolve, many have reached a level of maturity that allow practitioners to create holistic network-centric functions and services by leveraging the available low-level per-device mechanisms. Indeed, programmable network elements hold the promise of accelerating innovation and service deployment. At the same time, programmability could exacerbate already challenging network management tasks. The PRESTO workshop provides a forum for the exchange of ideas between researchers and industry practitioners, with a goal of driving service innovation in IP networks using novel extensible router and switch architectures. 
 
The call for papers attracted 23 submissions from Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. The program committee accepted 12 papers that cover a variety of topics including primitives for service creation and measurement, data path programmability, platform refactoring, network configuration, and network management. In addition, each session of the program includes a mini-panel aimed at stimulating discussion and providing a broader perspective. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for researchers and developers interested in programmable router architectures.