Schema integration is the task of integrating several local schemata into one global database schema. It is a complex, error-prone and time consuming task. Problems arise in recognizing and resolving problems, such as differences and similarities, between two schemata. Problems also arise in integrating static and dynamic schemata. In this thesis, three research topics are addressed: Maintaining Vocabulary in Schema Integration, Integration of Static Schemata and Integration of Static and Dynamic Schemata, while applying the notation in the Enterprise Modeling approach. In Maintaining Vocabulary in Schema Integration an analysis of what semantic loss is and why it occurs in schema integration is conducted. Semantic loss is a problem that should be avoided because both concepts and dependencies might be lost. In the thesis, it is argued that concepts and dependencies should be retained as long as possible in the schemata. This should facilitate user involvement since the users’ vocabulary is retained even after resolving similarities and differences between two schemata. In Integration of Static Schemata two methods are developed. These methods facilitate recognition and resolution of similarities and differences between two conceptual database schemata. By applying the first method, problems between two schemata can be recognized that otherwise could pass unnoticed; by applying the second method, problems can be resolved without causing semantic loss by retaining concepts and dependencies in the schemata. In Integration of Static and Dynamic Schemata a method on how to integrate static and dynamic schemata is developed. In the method, focus is put on pre- and post-conditions and how to map these to states and state changes in the database. By applying the method, states that are important for the database can be designed and integrated into the conceptual database schema. Also, by applying the method, active database rules can be designed and integrated into the conceptual database schema.