These are the pre-conference proceedings of the Third International Workshop on Software Engineering for Systems-of-Systems (SESoS 2015). After two successful previous editions, respectively held in Montpellier, France, in July 2013 (co-located with ECOOP, and also with ECSA and ECMFA) and in Vienna, Austria, in August 2014 (co-located with ECSA), it is our honour and pleasure to present this edition, co-located with the 37th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2015), to be held at Florence, Italy, on May 17th, 2015. 
 
Systems-of-Systems (SoS) have become increasingly complex and are frequently used in highly distributed, dynamic, and open environments. SoS have emerged as a new class of evolving software systems, where constituent systems (themselves systems in their own right) work cooperatively in order to fulfill specific missions. As already established in the literature, SoS are characterized by managerial and operational independence, geographic distribution, evolutionary development, and creation of emergent behavior. These characteristics have therefore raised substantial challenges to software engineering researchers and practitioners. 
 
SoS is becoming a hotspot, from both the research and the industrial viewpoints, in particular, related to crucial classes of applications such as safety-critical or mission-critical SoS. Furthermore, SoS are increasingly involved in applications that address societal needs such as environmental monitoring, distributed energy grids management, emergency coordination and crisis management, global traffic control, and smart cities. In this context, the research topic of software engineering for SoS needs to receive more attention and research efforts, considering that the software part of SoS is becoming increasingly larger and more complex. 
 
Software engineering theories and tools are needed to adequately design, implement, operate, and even evolve such dynamic, complex software-intensive SoS. This workshop series was conceived with the explicit purpose to specifically address this new perspective, and it has become the first in doing so. The main goal of SESoS is therefore to provide a forum for software engineering researchers and practitioners to exchange ideas and experiences, analyze research and development issues, discuss promising solutions, and propose inspiring visions for the future.