Recommender system (RecSys) plays important roles in helping users navigate, discover, and consume massive and highly-dynamic information. Today, many RecSys solutions deployed in the real world rely on categorical user-profiles and/or pre-calculated recommendation actions that stay static during a user session. However, recent trends suggest that RecSys need to model user intent in real time and constantly adapt to meet user needs at the moment or change user behavior in situ. There are three primary drivers for this emerging need of online adaptation. First, in order to meet the increasing demand for a better personalized experience, the personalization dimensions and space will grow larger and larger. It would not be feasible to pre-compute recommended actions for all personalization scenarios beyond a certain scale. Second, in many settings the system does not have user prior history to leverage. Estimating user intent in real time is the only feasible way to personalize. As various consumer privacy laws tighten, it is foreseeable that many businesses will reduce their reliance on static user profiles. Therefore, it makes the modeling of user intent in real time an important research topic. Third, a user's intent often changes within a session and between sessions, and user behavior could shift significantly during dramatic events. Therefore, it is important to investigate more on online and adaptive recommender system (OARS) that can adapt in real time to meet user needs and be robust against distribution shifts. Every year, the organizers survey the most important topics for OARS and propose a new workshop program. In light of the recent advancement of LLMs and foundation models in RecSys, in this new edition, we decide to formally add the new topic of foundation and LLM models in OARS. We will invite experts and papers in the field to facilitate its further advancement. Our workshop offers a focused discussion of the new study and application of OARS, and will bring together an interdisciplinary community of researchers and practitioners from both industry and academia to discuss on new topics in the area, grow a community, and push the direction forward.