Personalized Session-based Recommendation (PSR) extends the traditional sequential recommendation models-which typically recommends the next item based on a recent active session-to leverage historical sessions of a user for short-term recommendations in current session. However, existing PSR methods face two limitations: (1) treating offline sessions uniformly as static data and relying on user embeddings to represent personalized information overlook the dynamic evolution of interests over time, which can change significantly as sessions progress in practical application. (2) focusing on accuracy, i.e., recommending items relevant to recent interactions, ignores the balance of multi-faceted requirements for user satisfaction, i.e., diversity, novelty, and serendipity. Therefore, we introduce Multi-objective PSR (MOPSR) task and propose Hierarchical Decision Transformers (HDT) framework, which models strictly sequential preference transitions of users across and within sessions to balance recommendation accuracy with the mentioned objectives. To address the first problem, Inter-session DT dynamically tracks the user's long-term preference across sessions by maintaining a goal state. This goal state serves as personalized information to collaboratively make recommendations with short-term state via the Intra-session DT. To tackle the second limitation, we propose inter-session and intra-session unexpected returns to trade off relevant recommendations and user preferences on diversity, novelty, and serendipity. The hierarchical returns help the recommender accurately identify signals of the user's expectations and changes in multi-objective preferences. To verify the effectiveness of our method on the MOPSR, we apply HDT to four state-of-the-art sequential recommendation models and conduct experiments on two publicly available datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that (1) HDT can widely generalize sequential models to solve the MOPSR task in scenarios with incrementally generated sessions, and (2) our method can balance multi-objectives by maintaining and even enhancing accuracy while effectively improving the diversity, novelty, and serendipity objectives.