Service oriented software engineering, in which software applications are constructed as composition of services, has been recognized as an important approach to software system development. One of the main goals of the service oriented paradigm and of the technologies enabling this vision is to provide a solution to the development of applications involving tasks to be carried out by different organizations. Recently, more and more software systems are being developed, deployed, and consumed in this way. This new paradigm centers on the creation, discovery, composition and collaboration of autonomous services that can fulfill various functional and quality requirements. From a technological point of view, recent years have seen the emergence of important standards enabling the Service Oriented vision; however, the engineering of complex and dependable service oriented software still lacks powerful, effective methods and tools. 
 
The 2nd International Workshop on Service Oriented Software Engineering (IW-SOSWE 2007) is intended to provide a forum for presentation and discussion of a wide range of topics related to the new paradigm of service oriented software engineering. The aim of this workshop is to bring together researchers from academia and industry, as well as practitioners working in the areas of software system engineering and service-oriented computing to discuss existing issues, recent developments, applications, methods, techniques, experience reports, and tools to support the engineering and use of service oriented systems. IW-SOSWE07 was held in Dubrovnik, Croatia in conjunction with ESEC/FSE 2007. The previous workshop of this series was held in 2006 in conjunction with ICSE 2006. 
 
The 2007 program consisted of 6 technical papers and 2 position papers selected from a total of 16 submissions. The submission, review, discussion, and selection process were held entirely electronically. Each paper was peer reviewed by three members of the Program Committee.