The computer science research community has now recognized to the importance of fundamental, use-inspired and use-directed research and development, in computer science and engineering, for human health, healthcare, and healthcare economics. To cite one example, the first priority stated in the December 2010 Report of the (US) President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST), to the President of the United States, entitled Designing a Digital Future, is that the US Government "...should invest in a national, long-term, multi-agency research initiative on [networking and information technology] for health that goes well beyond the current national program to adopt electronic health records. The initiative should include sponsorship of multi-disciplinary research on three themes: to make possible comprehensive lifelong multi-source health records for individuals; to enable both professionals and the public to obtain and act on health knowledge from diverse and varied sources as part of an interoperable health IT ecosystem; and to provide appropriate information, tools, and assistive technologies that empower individuals to take charge of their own health and healthcare and to reduce its cost." 
 
The urgent need for improvements in health, healthcare and healthcare economics has emerged as a strategic priority not only for society, in general, but for computer science and engineering, in particular. Software engineering research has a potentially pivotal role to play, because required advances in health and healthcare require fundamental advances in our ability to produce ultracomplex and critical software underlying future health cyber-infrastructure systems and devices. 
 
Yet the software engineering research community has yet to fully organize itself around a clear, ambitious, and promising research agenda for health and healthcare. The engagement of software engineering researchers in the healthcare domain remains light. Moreover, fostering involvement of top researchers might require changes the norms and habits of our own research community. 
 
The SEHC workshop series provides a high-visibility, high-impact venue for researchers in software engineering who are active or interested in this area, to assemble to understand and advance the state of the art. 
 
The SEHC 2011 workshop will focus specifically on the need to develop and articulate a research agenda and strategy. The product of the workshop will be a significant draft research agenda document. We encourage those interested in this area to attend and contribute to the formulation of this document. A day of talks will be followed by an agenda- setting keynote and a full day of collaboration to produce a draft Software Engineering Agenda for Use-Inspired Research in Health and Healthcare.