Elissa Redmiles, Microsoft Research and Princeton University
            
  
  
    Elissa Redmiles is a Postdoctoral Researcher at Microsoft Research and an incoming professor at Princeton University. Elissa’s research interests are broadly in the areas of security and privacy. She uses computational, economic, and social science methods to understand users’ security and privacy decision-making processes, specifically investigating inequalities that arise in these processes and mitigating those inequalities through the design of systems that facilitate safety equitably across users. Elissa is the recipient of a NSF Graduate Research Fellowship, a Facebook Fellowship, and the John Karat Usable Privacy and Security Student Research Award.   

        
    



                    
          Matt  Bishop, Professor, University of California at Davis
            
  
  
    Matt Bishop is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of California at Davis. He works on data sanitization, elections and e-voting systems, policy, formal modeling, the insider threat, and computer and information security education. He co-led the Joint Task Force that developed the ACM/IEEE/ASIS SIGSAC/IFIP WG10.8 Cybersecurity Curricular Guidelines.  The second edition of his textbook, "Computer Security: Art and Science," was published in November 2018 by Addison-Wesley Professional.  Among other topics, he teaches programing and  computer security.  

        
    



                    
          Justin Cappos, Associate Professor, NYU Tandon School of Engineering
            
  
  
    Justin Cappos in a NYU professor who focuses on solving real world security problems in practice. He and his students often focus on problems in security, systems, software update systems, and virtualization, with an emphasis on practical research advances that can be used in production.

His research advances are adopted into production use by Docker, git, Python, VMware, automobiles, Cloudflare, Microsoft, Digital Ocean, and most Linux distributions. Due to the practical impact of his work, Justin was named to Popular Science's Brilliant 10 list in 2013.
  

        
    



                    
          Raheem Beyah, Professor, Georgia Institute of Technology
            
  
  
    Raheem Beyah is the Motorola Foundation Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Executive Director of the Online Masters of Cybersecurity program (OMS Cybersecurity) at Georgia Tech.  He leads the Communications Assurance and Performance Group (CAP) and is affiliated with the Institute for Information Security & Privacy (IISP). He is also the Co-Founder of Fortiphyd Logic , Inc. Raheem received the National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2009 and was selected for DARPA's Computer Science Study Panel in 2010. He is a member of AAAS, ASEE, a lifetime member of NSBE, a senior member of IEEE, and an ACM Distinguished Scientist.