The Web has become highly interactive and an 
important driver for modern life, enabling information retrieval, 
social exchange, and online shopping. From the security perspective, Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) is one of the most nefarious 
attacks against Web clients. Research has long since focused 
on three categories of XSS: Reflected, Persistent, and DOMbased XSS. In this paper, we argue that our community must 
consider at least four important classes of XSS, and present 
the first systematic study of the threat of Persistent Client-Side 
XSS, caused by the insecure use of client-side storage. While 
the existence of this class has been acknowledged, especially by 
the non-academic community like OWASP, prior works have 
either only found such flaws as side effects of other analyses or 
focused on a limited set of applications to analyze. Therefore, the 
community lacks in-depth knowledge about the actual prevalence 
of Persistent Client-Side XSS in the wild. 
To close this research gap, we leverage taint tracking to 
identify suspicious flows from client-side persistent storage (Web 
Storage, cookies) to dangerous sinks (HTML, JavaScript, and 
script.src). We discuss two attacker models capable of 
injecting malicious payloads into storage, i.e., a Network Attacker 
capable of temporarily hijacking HTTP communication (e.g., in 
a public WiFi), and a Web Attacker who can leverage flows into 
storage or an existing reflected XSS flaw to persist their payload. 
With our taint-aware browser and these models in mind, we 
study the prevalence of Persistent Client-Side XSS in the Alexa 
Top 5,000 domains. We find that more than 8% of them have 
unfiltered data flows from persistent storage to a dangerous sink, 
which showcases the developers’ inherent trust in the integrity 
of storage content. Even worse, if we only consider sites that 
make use of data originating from storage, 21% of the sites are 
vulnerable. For those sites with vulnerable flows from storage 
to sink, we find that at least 70% are directly exploitable by 
our attacker models. Finally, investigating the vulnerable flows 
originating from storage allows us to categorize them into four 
disjoint categories and propose appropriate mitigations.