Few attention has been paid to terminology extraction for what concerns the possibilities it offers to corpus linguistics and lexical acquisition. The problem of detecting terms in textual corpora has been approached in a complex framework. Terminology is seen as the acquisition of domain specific knowledge (i.e. semantic features, selectional restrictions) for complex terms and /or unknown words. This has useful implications on more complex text processing tasks (e.g. information extraction). An hybrid symbolic and probabilistic approach to terminology extraction has been defined. The proposed inductive method puts a specific attention to the linguistic description of what terms are as well as to the statistical characterization of terms as complex units of information typical of domain sub-. languages. Experimental evidence of the proposed method are discussed. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n Nowadays corpus processing techniques are widely adopted to approach the well-known lexical bottleneck problems in language engineering. Lexical acquisition methods rely on collocational analysis (pure statistics), robust parsing (syntax-driven acquisition) or semantic annotations as they are found in large thesaura or on-line dictionaries. The lexical information that trigger induction varies from simple word/tokens to syntactically annotated or semantically typed collocations (e.g. power fu l vs. s trong tea (Smadj a, 1989)), syntactic disambiguation rules (e.g. (Hindle and Rooths,1993), (Brill and Resnik,1994)) or sense disalnbiguation rules are usually derived. Such information is lexical as it, encodes constraints (of different types) at the word level, to be thus inherited by morphologic variants of a given lemma. This strongly lexicalized knowledge, as it is extracted from corpus data, requires lexical entries to be known in advance in some morphologic database. POS taggers or temmatizers are generally used to suitably map tokens to lemmas. It should be noted that lemmas in a corpus depends on the underlying sublanguage and their nature and shape is not as general as it is usually encoded in a morphologic dictionary. As an example, let s tudio (i.e. s tudy as a noun) be an entry in an italian morphologic dictionary. Typical information in such a database is the following: studio pos=noun gen=mas aura=sing Tlle only legal morphologic variant of ,studio is studi (studies, with nura=plur). When searching for s tudio in a corpus of environment related texts 1, we found this kind of occurrences (e.g. short contexts): ... studi di base .... (basic studies) ... studi di impatto ambientale .... (*studies on the environmental impact) ... studi di fa t t ib i l i td .... (feasibility studies), ... studi di ri ferimento .... (reference studies) It is very common in a corpus (not balanced, thus focused to a limited domain) to find a set of specifications of nouns that have some specific properties: • they are not always compositional (e.g. s tudio