In classical planning we are faced with the fol­ lowing formal task: Given a set A of permissible actions, a description a of initial states and a description of final states, determine a plan II, i.e. a finite sequence of actions from A, such that execution of II begun in any state satis­ fying is guaranteed to terminate in a state satisfying In this paper we extend the classical model of planning by admitting plans that are not as­ sured to succeed. We address two basic prob­ lems connected with such plans: (1) How to determine whether a given plan is valid (i.e. al­ ways succeeds), admissible (i.e. may succeed or fail) or inadmissible (i.e. never succeeds). (2) Given an admissible plan, determine a minimal set of observations that are to be made in the initial state (or in some intermediate state, if the plan is in progress) to validate or falsify the plan. 1 Introduction In classical planning we are faced with the following for­ mal task: Given a set A of admissible actions, a formula describing the set of initial states and a formula rep­ resenting a goal to be achieved, construct a plan II, i.e. a finite sequence of actions from A, such that execution of II begun in any state satisfying is guaranteed to terminate in a state satisfying This classical model of planning is oversimplified. In many practical settings it is reasonable to construct and execute plans that are not assured to succeed. There are two basic reasons for that. Firstly, it may happen that a plan that always achieves a final state does not exist. Secondly, even if such a plan exists, it may be better to choose a simpler, although uncertain plan. An example will help to illustrate this. Suppose I want to contact John. All information I have is his phone number and the fact that he is at home. Given this, the only plan I can choose is to call him. Of course, the plan may fail, if John's phone line is busy, but • This research was partially supported by the KBN grant 8T11C001 11. there is no better possibility. To guarantee the success of the plan, I have to know that John's line is not busy at the moment. Unfortunately, this information is hardly available. Assume now that, in addition, I know John's address. In this case, I can …