Questioning texts represented in semantic relations I requires the recognition that synonyms, instances, and hyponyms may all satisfy a questioned term. A basic procedure for accomplishing such loose matching using inheritance from a taxonomic organization of the dictionary is defined in analogy with the unification a!gorithm used for theorem proving, and the costs of its application are analyzed. It is concluded tl,at inherit,~nce logic can profitably be ixiclu.'ted in the basic questioning procedure. AI H a n d b o o k S t u d y In studying the pro-.~ss of answering questions from fifty pages of the AI tlandbook, it is striking that such subsections as those describing problem representations are organized so as to define conceptual dictionary entries for the terms. First, class definitions are offered and their terms defined; then examples are given and the computational terms of the definitions are instantiated. Finally the technique described is applied to examples and redel'ined mathematical!y. Organizing these texts (by hand) into coherent hierarchic structures of discourse results in very usable conceptual dictionary definitions that are related by taxonomic and partitive relations, leaving gaps only for non-technical terms. For example, in "give snapshots of the state of the problem at various stages in its solution," terms such as "state ' , 'p roblem' , and "solution" are defined by the text. while • give' , "snapshots', and "stages = are not. Our first studies in representing and questioning this text have used semantic networks with a minimal number of case arcs to represent the sentences and Super:~et/Instance and *Of/llas arcs to represent, respectively, taxonomic and partitive relations between concepts. Equivalence arcs are also used to represent certain relations sig~fified by uses of "is" and apposition 1supported by NSF Grant/ST 8200976 and *AND and *OR arcs represent conjunction. Since June 1982, eight question-answering systems have been' written, some in procedural logic and some in compilable EIJSP. Although we have so far studied questioning and data manipulation operations on about 40 pages of the text, the detailed study of inheritance costs discussed in this paper was based on 170 semantic relations (SRs), represented by 733 binary relations each composed of a node-arc-node triple. In this study the only inference rules used were those needed to obtain transitive closure for inheritance, but in other studies of this text a great deal of power is gained by using general inference rules for paraphrasing the question into the terms given by an answering text. The use of paraphrastie inference rules is computationally expensive and is discussed elsewhere [Simmons 1083]. The text-knowledge base is constructed either as a set of triples using subscripted words, or by establishing node-numbers whose values are the complete SR and indexing these by the first element of every SR. The latter form, shown in Figure 1, occupies only about a third of the space that the triples require and neither form is clearly computationally better than the other. The first experiments with this text-knowledge base showed that the cost of following inheritance ares, i.e. obtaining taxonomic closures for concepts, was very high; some questions required as much as a minute of central processor time. As a result it was necessary to analyze the process and to develop an understanding that would minimize any redundant computation. Our current system for questioning this fragment knowledge base has reduced the computation time to the range of 1/2 to less than 15 seconds per question in uncompiled ELISP on a DEC 2060. I believe the approach taken in this study is of particular interest to researchers who plan to use the taxonomic structure of ordinary dictionaries in support of natural language processing operations. Beginning with studies made in 1075 [Simmons and Chester, 1077] it was apparent to us that question-answering could be viewed profitably as a specialized form of theorem proving that