A concept of a collective of algorithm is proposed,which solve problems from the described set of problems. In this case the efficiency of the collective solution over the whole set appears to be higher than the best algorithm of the collective. Examples of the work of the collective of algorithms are given when solving problems of pattern recognition root determination. In the typical problems of the behaviour synthesis, of the choice for the optimal solution, of the selecting the best plan ect., the difficulty as a rule arises in the choice of the best algorithm (in the definite sense) for the problem solution from the available set of algorithms. In such situation the invention of a new algorithm is not expedient and in any case it is not economical. Living beings can effectively solve this problem and in typical situation they behave by combining algorithms already known to them. Let us formalise a problem. Consider the following rather widely spread situation. Let some set (finite or infinite) of problems of one type {X i }, i=1,2,... is given. These problems are coded by n parameters eaoh problem in the ted by the point and the whole set of problemsforms tt region Q Let also a finite set of algorithms {A}= {A 1 ,... ,A L } for solving problems I£Q be givin. Eacn of these algorithms A 1 (l-*1,...,L) solves or does not solve the problem X*. The efficiency of solution is determinated by some given criterion Q t which to the pair I. and A-. relates the q number: x (1) which characterizes the performance of the algorithm A-, when solving the problem Let us give examples of the problems of such kind. The pattern recognition problem, where I is a particular pattern recognition problem, {A} is a set of recognition algorithms, e.g., Bayes method, method of potential functions, method of perceptron etc., q is a probability that recognition is correct.The root determination problem where I is a particular function the root of which is to be determined. (A} is a set of algorithms for determining the root, e.g,, methods of tangents, of chords, of dichotomy etc.,q is the number of iteration for convergence into £-point of a root.The problem of the search optimisation where X is a situation set in the course of optimisa-tion, {A} is a set of the search algorithms , e.g., gradient method,random search method …