Strictness analysis based on abstract interpretation is an important technique for optimization of lazy functional languages. It is well known that all strictness analysis methods are incomplete, i.e., fail to report some strictness properties. In this paper, we provide the first precise and formal characterization of the loss of information that leads to this incompleteness. Specifically, we establish the following characterization theorem for Mycroft’s strictness analysis method and its natural generalization to non-flat domains called ee-analysis: Mycroft’s method will deduce a strictness property for program P iff the property is independent of any constant appearing in any evaluation of P. To prove this, we specify a small set of equations called E-axioms, that capture the information loss in Mycroft’s method and develop a new proof technique called E-rewriting. E-rewriting extends the standard notion of rewriting to permit the use of reductions using E-axioms interspersed with standard reduction steps. E-axioms are a syntactic characterization of information loss and Erewriting provides an algorithm independent proof technique for characterizing the power of strictness analysis methods. It can be used to answer questions on completeness and incompleteness of Mycroft’s method on certain natural classes of programs. Finally, the techniques developed in this paper provide a generzd principle for establishing similar results for other strictness analysis methods based on abstract interpretation. As a demonstration of the generality of our technique, we give a characterization theorem for another variation of Mycroft’s method called old-analysis. *Partially supported by NSF grants CCR-8706973, 8805734 Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and ha date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise , or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. @ 1990 ACM 089791-419-8/90/0012/0037 $1.50 37