In order to treat scientific calculation with sparse matrices effectively, we propose a dedicated parallel machine called "the Sparse Matrix Solving Machine" version II, or (SM)2-II for short. A computation model named NC (NODE & CONNECTING-LINE) model and a new data-interchange method named RSM (Receiver Selectable Multicast) are introduced for (SM)2.1L In RSM, all processing units (PUs) share a global logical address. A PU can recognize whether or not it needs certain data from the address which the data is written into, and only data which is needed is actually written into memory. With this method a PU reads the data without conflict, and the requirement for memory is minimal. In this paper, congestion on the system bus is analyzed. Through this analysis the effectiveness of RSM will be justified. 1.INTRODUCTION Many approaches toward solving large scale scientific problems with parallel processing have been taken, and many types of machines have been introduced. For instance, there are vector processors (e.g. In analyzing electronic circuits or an electric power flow, the problems take the form of large sparse matrices with an irregular non-zero structure. It is difficult to treat these problems efficiently even on existing machines make the best use of parallelism. Consequently, we proposed a special purpose machine named the 'Sparse Matrix Solving Machine', 2 2 or (SM) for short. 6 (SM) is a multi-microprocessor system which uses the MIMD method, and has a specific shared memory. However, (SM) 2 has some architectural problems. Here, we propose (SM)2-II, based on the following new ideas: (a) A computation model (NODE & CONNECTING-LINE model or NC model for short) and a language for its description (Node Description Language or NDL for short). (b) A new method for data-interchange (Receiver Selectable Multicast or RSM for short) which combines the advantages of shared memory and message packets. In this paper, the architecture of (SM)2-II is described. First, two keys to developing (SM)2-II are described, and the NC model and NDL are introduced. Next, RSM is proposed, and the structure which makes possible the connecting of a large number of Processing Units (PUs) is described. Finally, the bus conflict of RSM is analyzed. 2.DESIGN STRATEGY OF (SM)2.1I 2.1 Two keys to developing (SSM)2-II The target problems of (SM)2-II are diverse. For example, the analysis of electronic circuits or electric power flow, continuous system simulation, and many other types of calculation can be included. However, these …