This paper reports an interactive dynamic model using Continuous Knowledge Management methods and Knowledge Sharing technology to integrate the acquisition of skills and relevant information (knowledge level) into diverse, individualized, concurrent learning processes in a traditional classroom setting. As opposed to a passive introduction of technology to facilitate the traditional learning processes a Web based active learning and continuous evaluation process was created which integrates objective scientific knowledge relating to course content, subjective knowledge obtained through personal interactions and empirical knowledge collected during the learning process. Knowledge Management, an emerging area of Artificial Intelligence, encompasses identifying, mapping, and managing intellectual assets to generate new knowledge for competitive advantage and for sharing of technology. The Web-based model of knowledge management discussed here allows a diverse group of learners to progressively interact and participate in the learning process, providing non-threatening self-evaluation and just-in-time individualized feedback to the learners and efficient tracking and supervision tools to the instructor. CS1003, a required general education class provides an ideal application of this model as the course draws from a diverse body of students ranging from history to math majors and from freshmen to seniors. The instructional design of this course using the interactive dynamics of Knowledge Management includes (i) provision of course archives and relevant static information as a passive repository, (ii) Web Discussion Forums, electronic chats and email communication for active learning and continuous interaction, (iii) an intelligent self-evaluation and grade reporting system for non-threatening self-testing and what-if analysis of performance, and (iv) a dynamic student feedback system including individualized supervision and anonymous feedback. Application of this instructional process enhanced the goals of the course from mere computer literacy to what the 1999 NRC Report calls Fluency in Information Technology (FIT). Three kinds of knowledge requirements are identified for FIT: (1) Contemporary skills, (2) Foundational concepts, and (3) Intellectual capabilities. This model is broadly applicable to extend the benefits of traditional classroom instruction to focus diverse intellectual abilities and interests in a collaborative learning process. Formal and informal evaluation support this claim, demonstrating that the transition from purely traditional teaching to a high degree of technology fluency can be painless, efficient and effective in preparing the students for a technology intensive information age.