A key issue when incorporating rules into database systems concerns understrnding alternative semantics of rule application. The database progrsmming language Heraclitus[Alg,C] is an HI RMIIUS extension of C that supports the relational algebra and novel constructs related to the specification of these semantics. In particular. the language supports delta aa “first&se citizens” .theue are values corresponding to database updates, which may or may not be applied. Deltas are useful in representing the effect of rule firings, and for representing virtual dntabaae states, as they arise in the specification of several active database systems. Unlike previous work on clilTerential files and hypothetical relations, Heraclitun supports operators for combining deltas, and also alternative implementations that incorporate the impact of deltas into conventional database operators (e.g., join). The framework alAo appcsarw useful in connection with hypothetical database acrens, vcrsiou control, specifying concurrency protocols, and thr resolution of update conflicts. This paper dencribea the design and preliminary implementation of Heraclitus[Alg,C]. Two strategies for providing access to d&au have been implemented, one hash-based and the other sort-based. Initial evaluation of system performance demonstrates the feasibility of the language. *This work was supported in part by the NSF under grants IRI-9110522, IHI-910705S,INT-8817874, NYI award IRI-9258362, and tire USC FRIF under grant 22-1509-9440. tThis author’s current address: Computer Science Department, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309. Yrrmirrion to copy wiihout fee all or part of thir material is granted provided that the copier are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the VLllB copyright notice and the title oJ the publication and itr date appear, and notice ir given that copying ir by petmirrion OJ the Very Large Data Bare Endowmrnt. l’o copy otherwire, or to republirh, require4 a Jee and/or special permirsion from the Endowment. Proceedings of tbe 19tb VLDB Conference Dublin, Ireland 1993