To process sensory data, sensory brain areas must preserve information about both the similarities and differences among learned cues: without the latter, acuity would be lost, whereas without the former, degraded versions of a cue would be erroneously thought to be distinct cues, and would not be recognized. We have constructed a model of piriform cortex incorporating a large number of biophysical, anatomical and physiological parameters, such as two-step excitatory firing thresholds, necessary and sufficient conditions for long-term potentiation (LTP) of synapses, three distinct types of inhibitory currents (short IPSPs, long hyperpolarizing currents (LHP) and long cellspecific afterhyperpolarization (AHP)), sparse connectivity between bulb and layer-II cortex, caudally-flowing excitatory collateral fibers, nonlinear dendritic summation, etc. We have tested the model for its ability to learn similarity- and difference-preserving encodings of incoming sensory cue; the biological characteristics of the model enable it to produce multiple encodings of each input cue in such a way that different readouts of the cell firing activity of the model preserve both similarity and difference information. 
 
In particular, probabilistic quantal transmitter-release properties of piriform synapses give rise to probabilistic postsynaptic voltage levels which, in combination with the activity of local patches of inhibitory interneurons in layer II, differentially select bursting vs. single-pulsing layer-II cells. Time-locked firing to the theta rhythm (Larson and Lynch, 1986) enables distinct spatial patterns to be read out against a relatively quiescent background firing rate. Training trials using the physiological rules for induction of LTP yield stable layer-II-cell spatial firing patterns for learned cues. Multiple simulated olfactory input patterns (i.e., those that share many chemical features) will give rise to strongly-overlapping bulb firing patterns, activating many shared lateral olfactory tract (LOT) axons innervating layer Ia of piriform cortex, which in turn yields highly overlapping layer-II-cell excitatory potentials, enabling this spatial layer-II-cell encoding to preserve the overlap (similarity) among similar inputs. At the same time, those synapses that are enhanced by the learning process cause stronger cell firing, yielding strong, cell-specific afterhyperpolarizing (AHP) currents. Local inhibitory intemeurons effectively select alternate cells to fire once strongly-firing cells have undergone AHP. These alternate cells then activate their caudally-flowing recurrent collaterals, activating distinct populations of synapses in caudal layer lb. Potentiation of these synapses in combination with those of still-active LOT axons selectively enhance the response of caudal cells that tend to accentuate the differences among even very-similar cues. 
 
Empirical tests of the computer simulation have shown that, after training, the initial spatial layer II cell firing responses to similar cues enhance the similarity of the cues, such that the overlap in response is equal to or greater than the overlap in input cell firing (in the bulb): e.g., two cues that overlap by 65% give rise to response patterns that overlap by 80% or more. Reciprocally, later cell firing patterns (after AHP), increasingly enhance the differences among even very-similar patterns, so that cues with 90% input overlap give rise to output responses that overlap by less than 10%. This difference-enhancing response can be measured with respect to its acuity; since 90% input overlaps are reduced to near zero response overlaps, it enables the structure to distinguish between even very-similar cues. On the other hand, the similarity-enhancing response is properly viewed as a partitioning mechanism, mapping quite-distinct input cues onto nearly-identical response patterns (or category indicators). We therefore use a statistical metric for the information value of categorizations to measure the value of partitionings produced by the piriform simulation network.