We demonstrate how our system can help users con-struct data-intensive Web sites from XML repositories anddatabases in a very intuitive fashion. The key idea is toshow the system some example operations with data in-stances and let it infer the operations for the whole collec-tion of data objects in the data repositories. This problem ischallenging, because we allow data in the data repositoriesto be semistructured, and inferring (generalizing) the op-erations is a non-trivial task. We already found throughexperiments that even users without any knowledge ondatabase-related concepts(such as database schemas, SQL-style queries and path expressions) can construct fairlycomplex Web-sites from a collection of XML documentsand a relational database, by following their intuitions. Wethink our system is an example of how end users can beempowered by the semistructured data technologies the re-search community has been developing, because the Web-site construction process is realized by them.The demonstration is done with an implemented systemof our AQUA (Amalgamation of QUerying and Authoring)project[5] . The project started with a recognition that thewide acceptance of the world wide web is not only due toits easy way to access data but also to the simple mecha-nism that enables end users to publish their own, personalWeb contents[3]. Some of such personal Web sites are verydata-intensive: For example, movie enthusiasts manage alot of movie information, and researchers’ Web sites havetheir publications. (They are not necessarily computer sci-ence researchers.) While they write tons of HTML docu-ments, few of them use database management systems. Weattribute it to the following two causes: (1) For end users,incorporation of databases’ contents into Web sites is difﬁ-cult: They can use commercially available authoring toolswith drag-and-drop facilities todesign their sites. However,they are typically required to write queries in SQL, whichis a completely different framework from the page author-ing. (2) The nature of live information from the real world