Mundane, everyday, reasoning is fast. Given the inherent complexity of sound and complete reasoning with representations expressive enough to capture what people seem to know, commonsense reasoning must require shortcuts and assumptions. Some means of simplifying the retrieval of the inferential consequences of a set of facts is obviously required. Instead of looking, as others have, at limited inference or syntactic restrictions on the representation, we explore the use of "vivid" forms for knowledge, in which determining the truth of a sentence is on the order of a database retrieval. In order to base a reasoning system on vivid knowledge, we consider ways to construct a vivid KB—a complete database of ground, atomic facts—given facts that may be presented in a more expressive language that allows incompleteness (e.g., first-order logic). Besides offering an architecture for examining these problems, our results show that some forms of incomplete knowledge can still be handled efficiently if we extend a vivid KB in a natural way. Most interesting is the way that this approach trades accuracy for speed. 1 Introduction People perform quickly and competently in most everyday situations—despite an overwhelming barrage of information that nonetheless does not unambiguously characterize the state of the world. In contrast, computer problem-solvers—especially those with clear, formal foundations—are extremely slow in most circumstances , even when presented with little information. Consider a problem-solver that relies on a knowledge representation (KR) system to answer queries about what follows from a knowledge base. Although there are many factors that contribute to the overall performance of the problem-solver, clearly the efficiency of the KR system is important. Recent attempts to deal with the intractability of such systems have generally fallen under two headings: limited languages (e. can be expressed in the knowledge base (KB) is restricted (sometimes severely) to guarantee that queries can be answered in more or less reasonable time. In the latter , restrictions like avoiding chaining or four-valued interpretations yield limited conclusions, albeit from relatively expressive KB's. We conjecture that a key to efficient problem-solving lies in a notion of commonsense reasoning—the kind of reasoning that people engage in all the time without recourse to "paper and pencil' 1 , reasoning by cases, back-tracking, or particularly deep thought. 1 Commonsense reasoning is fast: if it were a problem-solver's normal mode of reasoning, then the problem-solver would be fast. Paradoxically, studies of commonsense reasoning in AI (e.g., nonmonotonic logics) …