Any theory which attempts to explain and predict the behaviour of a system, or to form the basis for construction of a system, must be founded on evidence of the characteristics and behaviour of that system, or of its components. Information retrieval systems have been so much of an empirical nature that there has been little evidence on which to base reliable theory. Some systems have been constructed on principles of linguistics, such as De 5aussure's theory in Gardin's "Synto]" system, or on the assumption of the interrelation of words by their frequency of occurrence or co-occurrence, but both such approaches assume that linguistic structure always has a clear relation to meaning. Meaning originates in thought, but language is only a surrogate, and often a poorly used surrogate, for such thought. Many theoretical studies have been based on probability theory applied to retrieval possibilities , but such theories have had little basis of experimental facts, and have not been developed to make predictions for which experimental verification has been sought. There are in fact several stages of information retrieval where one might expect a special bias to operate. It is possible to make a good fact-retrieval system from records of invariant data such as, say, physical properties, with a limited number of standard terms, as in a data handbook, but this is not the type of system in general use. Most retrieval systems are intended to cover much more diffuse types of information, and have been based on the use of keywords and/or descriptors, and their connection by elementary Boolean algebra in the putting of questions. Neither of these correctly or adequately expresses meaning between terms, especially if the terms have been inadequately standardized or selected. There have consequently been a number of empirical attempts to overcome false drops and other errors by such means as the use of 'or'-terms, truncated terms, roles, links, word co-occurrence rules, weighting, Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. feedback, etc., but without any real success or consistency. It is therefore important, for the …