Schaefer showed, long ago, that there are, essentially, only three non-trivial classes of conjunctive Boolean formulae (or constraint satisfaction problems) for which oatisflability can be decided in polynomial time (assuming P $ NP), These three classes are LIN, 2-SAT and HORN-SAT. LIN is the constraint satisfaction problem in which all the constraints are linear equations modulo 2, 2-SAT is the constraint satisfaction problem in which all the constraints are disjunctions of at most two variables or their negations. HORN-SAT is the constraint satisfaction problem in which all the constraints are Horn clauses, i.e., disjunctions containing at most one negated variable. Given aatisfiable instances of LIN, P-SAT and HORNSAT, we can very efficiently find satisfying assignments. Suppose, however, that the instances that we are given are only almost-satisfiable, i.e., there are assignments that satisfy 1 e of their constraints, for some small con&ant e > 0, but no assignments that satisfy all their constraints. Can we efficiently find almost-satisfying assignments, i.e., assignments that satisfy 1 f(e) of the constraints, where f(c) is a function that tends to 0 an E tends to 01 For LIN, the answer turns out to be ‘no’. H&ad showed that, for any e > 0 and 6 > 0, finding an assignment hat satisfies l/2 -t 6 of the constraints of a (1 e)-satisfiable instance of LIN is NP-hard. In sharp contrast, we show here that the answer for 2SAT and HORN-SAT is ‘yes’. Given almost-satisfiable instances of P-SAT and of HORN-SAT we cun efhcicntly find almost-satisfying assignments. More specifically, given a (1 e)-satisfiable 2-SAT formula we can eflicicntly find a (1 O(e1/3))-satisfying assignment. Given a (1-c)-satisfiable HORN-SAT formula we can ‘Dopnrtment of Computer Science, School of Mathematical Bclenceo, Raymond and Beverly Sackler Faculty of Exact Scioncen, ‘Ibl Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, ISRAEL. Email: zuickdYnath.tau.ac.il. efficiently find a (1 O(loglog $/log $))-satisfying assignment. Our results, combined with extensions of Schaefer’s results obtained by Creignou and by Khanna, Sudan and Williamson, imply that ZSAT and HORN-SAT are, essentially, the only non-trivial classes of formulae for which almost-satisfying assignments can be found in polynomial time (assuming P # NP).