We study the existence of polynomial time approximation algorithms and approximation schemes for a number of basic problems in the literature including the various natural problems in [Ba83, Ka91, Ka92, PY9 1], when instances are specified using the succinct specification languages of [Le89, Wa93, Ga82]. We introduce the concept of k-level-restricted specifications, and show that this syntactic restriction can be applied to each of the succinct specification languages of [Le89, Wa93, Ga82]. Although many basic problems are PSPACE-hard even for level-restricted specifications of planar instances, we show that . Many of these basic problems II have efficient approximation algorithms with performance guarantees which are asymptotically equal to the best known performance guarantee for H for flat specification. This result holds, for both sequential and parallel capproximations and approximation schemes. As a corollary of the above result, we get that for every fixed k >1, all planar graph problems shown to have a PTAS–in Baker [Ba83] when instances are specified non-succinctly, have a PTAS when graphs are specified by k-leveI-restricted succinct specifications. Thus our results answer an open question by Condon et. al. in their recent paper [CF+93a]. 1Email addresses: {madhav, hunt ,res}c?!cs.albany. edu QSuPPOrted bY NSF Grants CCR 89-CISS1$I and CCR g905296. 3Department of Computer Science, University at Albany SUNY, Albany, NY 12222. 4Current Address: Mailstop 47LA, Hewlett-Packard Company, 19447 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, California SMO149913. Email: rven@cup.hp .com Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association of Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. R.E. Stearns 1’2J3 V. Radhakrishnan 2Y4