Kernel-based remote memory systems are gaining traction in datacenters due to their significant improvement in memory utilization and their ability to transparently provide applications with unlimited memory capacity. However, the high degree of parallelism in contemporary applications leads to a significant demand for remote access throughput, which mismatches with the state-of-the-art kernel swap path due to its inherently limited parallelism. As a result, it cannot scale up the multi-core applications. We dive into the implementation of the swap path and identify the root cause behind it - significant lock contentions and inefficient swap tasks offloading. To address these challenges, we introduce RaidenSwap, a kernel-based remote memory system that aims to improve swap path efficiency with two key ideas. 1) It introduces a page swapping framework that parallelizes page swapping on a core basis with little thread synchronization. This is achieved by allocating a separate LRU list to each core, thereby avoiding lock contention for the global one, while the collective effect of all local LRU lists retains the behavior of using a global LRU list. Meanwhile, this separation also enables memory semantics tracking on a fine-grain thread level, providing opportunities for semantic-aware swapping. 2) It offloads both prefetching and reclaiming tasks with smaller batches to a pool of worker threads, which efficiently harnesses fine-grained CPU idle time, minimizing disruption to application threads. We implemented a RaidenSwap prototype as a kernel module, ported it to multiple Linux kernels (v4.11 and v6.1), and evaluated it with both microbenchmarks and real applications. Our results show that RaidenSwap significantly outperforms state-of-the-art remote systems, such as Hermit, Canvas and Fastswap, by improving swap throughput by a factor of 1.8 to 16.5 and reducing remote access latency by 70%. Consequently, RaidenSwap accelerates the completion time of real applications by 8% to 70%.