Operating system specialization is a well-known approach to optimize a specific application's performance, memory usage, security, or other important metrics. Specializing an OS for an application is typically a manual process that requires great expertise. Specialization through configuration lends itself well to automation; however, it is challenging due to the sheer size of the configuration space of modern OSes, the difficulty to quantify that space, the long time it takes to evaluate a configuration, and the large number of invalid configurations. Hence, existing attempts at specializing OSes automatically are limited to switching features on and off to minimize memory consumption or attack surface, and cannot target metrics such as performance. We present Wayfinder, a framework specializing the configuration of OSes completely automatically and without expert knowledge. It can specialize all aspects of an OS configuration (compile-/boot-/run-time) towards any quantifiable performance, resource consumption, or security metric, for an application processing a given workload on a given hardware setup. Wayfinder consists of an automated OS benchmarking platform, and a neural network-based search algorithm driving the specialization process. This is achieved by learning on the fly which configuration parameters and values impact performance the most, and which ones lead to runtime failures. Optionally, a model pre-trained on one application can be reused to accelerate the specialization of related applications. We evaluate Wayfinder on two OSes, four applications, and two target metrics: Wayfinder fully automatically identifies specialized configurations with up to 24% application performance improvement and 8.5% memory usage reduction compared to default configurations. We highlight the benefits of our neural network, reaching good solutions faster than competing approaches (random and Bayesian), and successfully transferring knowledge between related applications.