Women found their momentum to engage in new forms of participation, accumulate economic and social capital in disaster management. However, it is important to highlight that the types of women agency remain emanates from the periphery of social relations. The significant of economic contributions of their work were perceived as residual, incident and secondary to male income. The purposes of the study is to discuss the support networks alimented by women during disaster which wasn't recognized as a source of power or status they constructed. The method use in this research was qualitative approach with case study design. The result of the research show that women agency serves the political position of the husband that can refer to and benefit from her knowledge about community members and issues. Agency practices, even though can incubate openly political and recognized forms of participation. They produce new clusters of action that coexist, intersect and negotiate along with legitimate structures. Keywords—women agency; disasaster management; flood I. IN TRODUCTION The sociological approach to disaster often addresses issues of social solidarity and conflict that escalate in case of disasters. Hazards and natural events are not controllable by human societies however risks and impacts are distributed in ways that reflect the power relations and social divisions that already exist in a collectivity. Disaster research considers class, ethnic and more recently gender inequalities can exacerbate its effects and expose certain groups to a higher degree of vulnerability. Feminist scholars had a great influence criticizing mainstream disaster research as male-oriented, bringing visibility to qualitative differences in the way men, women and children are affected by such happenings. Available data from the World Health Organization (WHO) suggests that gender differentiation at all levels of the disaster process related to perception and exposure to risk; preparedness; response; physical and psychological impact; recovery and reconstruction. Women and girls are particularly exposed to violence and adverse health effects in the chaos that might follow the aftermaths of a disaster. Moreover, lack of participation in the decision-making process within the community suggests their specific needs might be insufficiently met. Gender as a process of collective construction created on sexual differences. By the term of process refer to the never ending social process which not simply given by social and cultural contexts, but they are both challenged and reinforced in everyday life. As an organizing principle of social life, gender relations is the constitutive part of economic, cultural and social processes. Gender relations is a part of the human experience of disaster since it cannot be lived outside gendered bodies and minds. The intersecting gender and disaster enquiry usually focus on the idea of vulnerability which demonstrating how gender inequalities exponentially increases as the impact of catastrophes on women or generates specific gendered impacts as well. However, we intended to examine the different types of women agency that emerges from this kind of situation. Agency focused research approaches individuals, groups and institutions as agents capable of originate social actions and produce impact in social phenomena. This article aims to addresses for the different kinds of female agency that emerges in the event of flooding and landslides in Southern Area of Malang. In this sense, we consider women not only as victims, but as social actors with creative capacity to deal with the aftermaths and to manage their situation of vulnerability. We consider disaster situations might enhance gender inequalities and oppression. Nevertheless, it also offers opportunities for women to engage in new forms of social structure within their families and communities.