In 2014, pedophilia was committed in Sukabumi. This act caught the attention of social media across Indonesia, and is believed to be the first of its kind to spread across the country through social media. The act became a trending topic looked at from two perspectives: the number of victims and the media coverage which lasted for almost one month. In this paper, we discuss pedophilia as a social crime, specifically in regard to the rural community of Sudajaya, Sukabumi. Major cases related to violence against children, including sexual crimes, reported to the KPAI in 2014 (1), included the Jakarta International School (JIS) child sexual abuse case; child sodomy performed by Andi Sobari a.k.a. Emon in Sukabumi with 110 child victims; Samai, the pedophile in Tegal reported to have molested approximately 100 children with the average ages of 13- 14, who trapped his victims with the ruse of teaching magic to change leaves into money; the case of sodomy by the watchman of a mosque in Makassar, with dozens of child victems aged 9-11 years old, committed from 2013, with incidents ocurring in a landfill site when students finished reading the Qur'an by a perpetrator on the Secretariate of the Organizing Committee of the mosque. Research into community behavior in response to cases of social violence from the Research Centre for the study of Islam and Society (PPIM), State Islamic University (UIN), conducted in 2006, and the results of the Child Monitoring Protection Commission Indonesia (KPAI) in 2012 in 9 provinces (1), show there is a correlation between attitudes and behaviour of families and communities against violence with the cultural and religious understanding believed. These two aspects of the patriarchal cultural roots which then affect the religious understanding and gender bias on society, with the justifications made as if the violence stems from religion. In fact, there is no Islamic teaching that justify the occurrence of violence, especially against women and children. The cases of neglect and violence against children, which are identified in reference centers and police is just the tip of the iceberg, and does not reflect the total number of cases in the community, because not all cases are reported. According to the National Commission for Child Protection and Maintenance, there appears to be an increasing number of both types of cases. The limited data on violence against children is due to a lack of adequate means of providing services, including a recording system (2). The impact caused as a result of these social aberrations is negative in nature, both to the offender and the community in general. Deviant behavior is also commonly considered detrimental to society. Based on the above background, the authors will address the issue of social impact analysis of the occurrence of pedophillia in Sukabumi district (a case study of the village of Sudajaya), which includes the public perception that Sudajaya is a pedophile village.