where the dent end does not possess apubfic keyi. The first work toderdwith theuseofpubhc key techWe study protocok for strong authentication and key exchange in asymmetric scenarios where the authentication niques in conjunction with password authentication was by Gong, Lomas, Needham and Srdtzer [II]. k that paper, it server possesses a pair of privat e and pubhc keys wMe the dent has ordy a weak human-memotiable password as its was suggested that by providing the authentication server with a pair of private/pubfic keys one codd protect weak huauthentication key. We present and analyze several simple man passwords against strong attacks via the use of pubhc password protocok in this scenario, and show that under the key encryption. choice of suitable pubtic key encryption functions the secuThe emphasis of that work was in protecting passwords rity of these protocok can be forrndy proven based on stanagainst off-be password-guessing attacks, which is a comdard cryptographic assumptions. b partictiar, our analysis mon and powerfti attack that takes advantage of the low shows optimal resistance to off-kc password guessing atentropy atiable in user-chosen passwords. This attack pr~ tacks. k addition to user authentication, we enhance our ceeds by trying to guess the password and verify the guessed protocok to provide tw~way authentication, authenticated due using pub~dy adable information, such as the trankey exchange, defense against server’s compromise, and user script of a legitimate authentication session between the user anonymity. We complement these restits with a proof that and server. This attack k very powerfrd, since it can be perpubfic key techniques are unavoidable for p~sword prot~ formed off-be, so the attacker does not need to interact cok that resist off-be guessing attacks. As a further contribution, we introduce the notion of pubwith the legitimate parties, and can use a lot of computing lic passwords that dow for the use of such protocok in sitpower. (h contrast, on-be attacks where the attacker activdy tries tierent passwords against the server are easy to uations where the Aent’s machine does not have the means detect and tit.) Our work extends the pubfic key based to *date the server’s pubhc key. PubEc passwords serve approach of [11] in several ways. as ‘hand-hdd certficatesm that the user can carry without the need for speard computing devices. ● We consider several simple and intuitive protocok for password authentication, and formfly analyze their