speculated about the need and design of " Information Refineries " , machines capable of taking massive amounts of data and converting it into knowledge. In order to investigate the design of a database machine which would be capable of acting as the data storage engine of Gelemter's " Information Refineries " the authors initiated the MEDUSA Project as a joint undertaking between the Hardware Architecture The current MEDUSA prototype utilises a shared-nothing architecture based on the INMOS Transputer. Each of the three processing nodes used in the prototype consists of two T805 transputers with a T222 SCSI interface to a Maxtor 180 MByte disk unit as shown in figure 1. Principle Goals of the Project The principle goals of the MEDUSA Project are to develop a prototype database machine based on a shared-nothing architecture using low cost " off the shelf " components to SUpport research in the following areas: autonomous data management user data interfaces; backup and security systems. If the full potential of these machines is to be exploited they must exhibit a level of operational autonomy similar to the existing file server technology used on local area networks. That is, they should be capable of seamless integration into a network without requiring changes to existing software development practices or additional specialised staff to maintain their operational efficiency. Operational autonomy can be achieved by a self-organising or self-tuning database, In a self-organising database environment the database management system (DBMS) is responsible for the system tuning and data re-organisation, to achieve optimal performance. Human intervention in the system's maintenance task is reduced to no more than the changing of backup media or carrying out hardware maintenance. The traditional approach taken to performance tuning is normally heuristically bas~ with the DBMS providing the administrator with a number of tuning parameters which are adjusted based on the DBAs experience. The lack of an experienced DBA forces most sites to rely on intuition or guesswork the latter being more common. so L Interface An SQL interface, MedusaSQL, is available for data retrieval on MEDUSA. Currently, a reduced version of SQL92 standard is operational. This version allows retrieval of selected attribute values from tuples which meet criteria specified in the WHERE clause. Simple projections, joins and selections are possible using the features of the SELECT, FROM and WHERE clauses implemented thus far. Full implementation of SQL92 is planned to be completed by …