The goal of my thesis work is to develop game analysis techniques capable of informing strategy design in large, complex games. Broadly defined, games are situations where multiple players make interacting decisions; each players’ choice depends on the choices of the other players. The formal study of games has origins in economics, but in recent years game theory has drawn increasing interest in computer science. Computer science offers a rich set of tools for advancing the art of game analysis, including simulation methods that can be used to explore strategic interactions in games. Game theory has achieved significant success and popularity, but practitioners have had mixed success applying the theory to real strategy design problems (Roth 2002). An acute challenge in game theory applications is the size and complexity of real games, which often require players to choose among very large sets of distinct courses of action. A second (related) challenge is that players and analysts typically face substantial uncertainty about the outcomes due to computational and observational limitations. Large games exacerbate these uncertainties to the extent that they arise from resource limitations. This form of uncertainty is particularly difficult to characterize due to the intricacies of gathering evidence about game outcomes. Consider, for example, the Trading Agent Competition Supply Chain Management game (TAC SCM) (Arunachalam & Sadeh 2005; Kiekintveld et al. 2006). This is a game of significant interest among researchers, and gametheoretic investigation of this game forms part of my thesis. The game is an hour-long simulation of a supply chain scenario played by automated agents. The space of possible agent designs is extremely large and – despite countless hours of investigation – no optimal solution is known or on the horizon. Like many real games of interest, TAC SCM is defined in a compact form, by a set of game rules and game server that implements those rules.1 We can gather evidence about the SCM game by simulating game instances, but even using thousands of hours of simulation time we are