In recent years, there is a phenomenal growth in the amount of online text material available from the greatest information repository known as the World Wide Web. Various traditional information retrieval(IR) techniques combined with natural language processing(NLP) techniques have been re-targeted to enable efficient access of the WWW--search engines, indexing, relevance feedback, query term and keyword weighting, document analysis, document classification, etc. Most of these techniques aim at efficient online search for information already on the Web. Meanwhile, the corpus linguistic community regards the W W W as a vast potential of corpus resources. It is now possible to download a large amount of texts with automatic tools when one needs to compute, for example, a list of synonyms; or download domain-specific monolingual texts by specifying a keyword to the search engine, and then use this text to extract domain-specific terms. It remains to be seen how we can also make use of the multilingual texts as NLP resources. In the years since the appearance of the first papers on using statistical models for bilingual lexicon compilation and machine translation(Brown et al., 1993; Brown et al., 1991; Gale and Church, 1993; Church, 1993; Simard et al., 1992), large amount of human effort and time has been invested in collecting parallel corpora of translated texts. Our goal is to alleviate this effort and enlarge the scope of corpus resources by looking into monolingual, comparable texts. This type of texts are known as nonparallel corpora. Such nonparallel, monolingual texts should be much more prevalent than parallel texts. However, previous a t tempts at using nonparallel corpora for terminology translation were constrained by the inadequate availability of same-domain, comparable texts in electronic form. The type of nonparallel texts obtained from the LDC or university libraries were often restricted, and were usually out-of-date as soon as they became available. For new word translation, the timeliness of corpus resources is a prerequisite, so is the continuous and automatic availability of nonparallel, comparable texts in electronic form. Data collection effort should not inhibit the actual translation effort. Fortunately, nowadays the World Wide Web provides us with a daily increase of fresh, up-to-date multilingual material, together with the archived versions, all easily downloadable by software tools running in the background. It is possible to specify the URL of the online site of a newspaper, and the start and end dates, and automatically download all the daily newspaper materials between those dates. In this paper, we describe a new method which combines IR and NLP techniques to extract new word translation from automatically downloaded English-Chinese nonparallel newspaper texts.