The goal of the 00 Compilation workshop was to determine the current state of applying object-oriented techniques to the compilation problem and to discover which object-oriented techniques were successful and which weren't. The position papers contain much of that information. I would heartily recommend reading them. The papers can be obtained by anonymous ftp from: everest.ee.umn.edu:pub/oopsla Several key lessons were learned at the workshop: Object-oriented compiler writers have not abandoned the traditional models nor technology, but have supplemented it with object-oriented technology. The main goals behind applying object-oriented technology were increasing reuse, opening up the implementation, and increasing functional-ity. Many of the efforts were directed toward the semantic model, either how to represent the semantics or how to traverse and process the semantic representation. Another major emphasis was the adding of object oriented features to compiler-compilers. There was the realization that the implementation language, the culture surrounding it, and the problem being solved played an equal role in determining which object oriented techniques were successful. Both the diversity and the commonality in the approaches became evident at the workshop. The diversity came from the problems attacked and approaches used, and is reflected in the third bullet above. The commonality came from the consensus on compiler architecture and from the object-oriented viewpoint. This point is worth stressing. The general architecture for a compiler is fairly well defined and well accepted. However, object-orientation brings a unique emphasis to viewing the compilation process. That emphasis focuses attention on the semantic representation and how it is manipulated. Thus, the object-oriented viewpoint created a commonal-ity itself, as many of the participants viewed their diverse problems from the shared perspective of, " How should I represent this so that I can manipulate it? " Papers Discussed The next four sections of the paper give brief summaries of the position papers, including some information that came up during the discussions. The categories and the grouping of the position papers are somewhat arbitrary and several of the papers could have easily been moved.