An instance of MAX 3CSP is a collection of m clauses of the form fi(.zil, .Q, zis), where the Zij’s are literals, or constants, from the set (0, 1, ti, . . . , zn, Ii,. . . , &}, and the fi’s are arbitrary Boolean functions depending on (at most) three variables. Each clause has a nonnegative weight wi associated with it. A solution to the instance is an assignment of O-l values to the variables Zl,..., C, that maximizes X:=1 wi fi(Zil, zi2, YQ), the total weight of the satisfied clauses. The MAX 3CSP problem is clearly a generalization of the MAX 3SAT problem. (In an instance of the MAX 3SAT problem fi(Gl, zi2, G3 ) = %il V %j2 V %j3 for every 1 5 i 5 m.) Karloff and Zwick have recently obtained a gapproximation algorithm for MAX 3SAT. Their algorithm is based on a new semidefinite relaxation of the problem. H&tad showed that no polynomial time algorithm can achieve a better performance ratio, unless P=NP. Here we use similar techniques to obtain a 3approximation algorithm for MAX 3CSP. The performance ratio of this algorithm is also optimal, as follows again from the work of H&tad. We also obtain better performance ratios for several special cases of the problem. Our results include: l A $-approximation algorithm for MAX SAND, the problem in which each clause is of the form zir A zi2 A zis. This result is optimal and it implies the result for MAX JCSP. l A $-approximation algorithm for MAX 3MAJ, the problem in which each clause is of the form MAJ(Zil,Zi2,Zi3), where MAJ is the ~ajotity function. This result is again optimal. l A &-approximation algorithm for MAX 3NAE, the problem in which each clause is of the form NAE(yi, Zi2, Zis), where NAE(zi, 22,x3) = 1 if and only if 21,~ and 2s are not all equal. (We assume *Department of Computer Science, Tel-Aviv University, TelAviv 69978, Israel. Email: zrickQmath. tau. ac. il. This work was done while this author was visiting ICSI and UC Berkeley. here that the same literal, or constant, is not allowed to appear twice in the same clause.) Finally, building on ideas of Trevisan, we get a gapproximation algorithm for satisfiable instances of MAX 3CSP. Our results imply limits on the power of non-adaptive verifiers of probabilistically checkable proofs (PCP’s) that read only three bits of the proof. We also obtain a & arccos( i)-approximation algorithm for satisfiable instances of MAX SNAE. (Note that & N 0.87868 while & arccos(--Q) 21 0.91226.)