Pay-as-bid auctions are frequently implemented when a single seller allocates multiple units of a homogeneous good, and are commonly used to sell treasury securities, allocate electricity generation, and distribute emissions credits. In this auction format, bidders submit demand curves to a seller who uses these stated demands to compute market-clearing quantities, then allocates each bidder her associated quantity while charging the entire area under her stated demand curve. Except in parameterized settings, little has been known about equilibrium strategies in pay-as-bid auctions. We model pay-as-bid auctions using random supply and a perfectly-divisible good. In a setting where bidders are perfectly symmetric, we prove the uniqueness of pure-strategy Bayesian-Nash equilibria and give a tight sufficient condition for the existence of this unique equilibrium. Equilibrium uniqueness does not depend on any restrictive assumptions on the form of bids: equilibrium bid functions are unique in the space of all bounded, decreasing functions on the domain of available quantities. We show that this equilibrium has a surprisingly convenient and tractable analytical form: the bid for any quantity is a weighted average of the marginal values for all larger quantities. Leveraging this representation of bids, we show that deterministic supply revenue-dominates all distributions of random supply; hence if the seller can affect the distribution of supply, it should sell the classical monopolist's quantity. We show that, with optimal supply, if the seller is also permitted to set a reserve price, the pay-as-bid auction and the uniform-price auction---the other common format for allocating multiple homogeneous units---are revenue-equivalent; without the ability to set a reserve price, the pay-as-bid auction weakly revenue-dominates all equilibria of the uniform-price auction. The equivalence of optimally-parameterized auctions may provide insight into the empirical ambiguity surrounding which mechanism generates better outcomes.