A knowledge representation system is presented , based on the use of a semantic net on which a higher level structure of frames has been superimposed. The system was designed for use with a natural language system for finding the correct senses of ambiguous words in context. An examination of several linguistic examples shows how the representation system facilitates associative searches of context for potentially appropriate senses of ambiguous words, and how the results of such searches can often provide definite refer-ents. The system also embodies novel approaches to the representation of multiple subparts, and of similar, but different, entities. I Introduction Recently, there have been several attempts ([1], [2], and [4]) to make semantic nets more useful as a method of knowledge representation. All these projects have depended on use of frame-like structures ([5]); that is, they introduced a unit of representation that is on a higher level than the nodes and links of more traditional semantic nets ([6], [7]), in that it stands for the information contained in a collection of several nodes and links. These frame-like structures allow a notion of relevance or viewpoint to be implemented. In any given use of the semantic net, only some of the frames are deemed active, and the information contained in the others is ignored; in this way, the information apparently contained in the net can be made dependent on the point of view of the process accessing the net. As the several reports mentioned above show, this basic technique can be used very effectively to a number of different purposes, including the representation of quanti-fication, of variable levels of detail, of contradictory hypotheses, and of different aspects of the same object. This paper describes the application of the technique to a more specialised problem, that of word-sense disambiguation by association. By an association, I will mean some definite and systematic relation between two concepts; for example, in: When Fred arrived, his arm was covered in bandages. The woman went to the clock, and looked at the face. 99 the appropriate senses of "arm", "face", and "hand", respectively have associations with the appropriate senses of "man", "clock", and "gamb-ler". Superimposing a frame-like structure on top of a large semantic net allows the number of search steps involved in finding such associations to be reduced; in addition, defining several different classes of relationships between frames, and making the search sensitive to …