Computing is a rapidly evolving discipline that faces many challenges as it matures professionally. Some primary issues are certification, licensing and registration of practicing professionals, accreditation of computer science and software engineering degree programs, and industry's expectations of university degree and continuing education programs. This panel discussion focuses on a unifying framework for these diverse but interacting components of the computing profession. Some issues for discussion will include: * What is a licensed professional? * What is a certified professional? * What is accreditation? * Is accreditation useful to industry? To students? To universities? * Should software professionals be certified? Be licensed? * What groups should administer certification or licensing procedures? * What are the legal implications of professional certification or licensing? * Should software engineering be a discipline separate from computer science? * What are the roles of industry and universities in continuing education for computing professionals? The panel participants will be: Robert Baltes is Chief Executive Office and Chairman of the Board of Baltes/Valentino Associates, Ltd. (BVA), Phoenix, Arizona. BVA is a 30 person mechanical, plumbing, and electrical engineering firm. He is registered as a professional engineer in 10 states and nationally. He is a member of the Arizona Board of Technical Registration, a member and past president of the Arizona Consulting Engineers Association, a founding member and past president of the Arizona Cogeneration Association, a past member of the Phoenix Building Advisory Board, and a past member of the Governor’s Energy Committee. He received an BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin. Mr. Baltes will present the professional engineering view of software engineering accreditation and registration. Neal S. Coulter will moderate the discussion and present a university-based perspective of the curricula issues. Dr. Coulter is Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at Florida Atlantic University (FAU). He represents ACM on the Computing Sciences Accreditation Board and has served on four accreditation visits. While department chair at FAU, he organized an extensive software engineering graduate program in cooperation with nine major technology companies and the Software Engineering Institute and he led the development of bachelors, masters, and Ph.D. programs in computer science and in computer engineering. He has served on the ACM Education Board, as chair of the AFIPS Education Committee, and as chair of the 1991 and 1998 ACM Computing Classification System Update Committees. He is co-editor of a forthcoming special volume of Annals of Software Engineering on Software Engineering Education, a member of the ACM Accreditation Committee, and editor-in-chief of Computer Reviews and of Guide to Computing Literature. He has worked for Boeing, IBM, and Siemens, and spent sabbaticals at the Software Engineering Institute and Los Alamos National Laboratory. He holds a Ph.D. in computer science from Georgia Tech. Dennis J. Frailey will address industry's perspective of university programs. Dr. Frailey is a practicing software engineer at Raytheon Electronic Systems with strong ties to computer science and software engineering education and research. A former associate professor of computer science, he now teaches on an adjunct basis at Southern Methodist University. At Raytheon, he is a senior software technologist and distinguished member of the technical staff, specializing in real time system design and software process improvement. Dr. Frailey was responsible for several computer science and software engineering education programs at Texas Instruments and helped establish software engineering degrees at two universities. He is co-chair of the IEEE/ACM Joint Task Force on Establishment of Software Engineering as a Profession, and has been a program evaluator for the Computer Science Accreditation Commission since 1985 and in that capacity has visited ten schools for accreditation evaluations. He holds a Ph.D. in computer science from Purdue University. Nancy Mead will address maturity of the profession, especially issues related to licensing and certification of software professionals. Dr. Mead is Senior Member of the Technical Staff in the Networked Survivable Systems Program of the Software Engineering Institute, and a faculty member in the Master of Software Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. Dr. Mead is currently involved in the study of survivable systems architectures, and the development of professional infrastructure for software engineers. She has also served as Director of Education for the SEI from 1991-1994. Her research interests are in the areas of software requirements engineering, software architectures, software metrics, and real-time systems. Prior to joining the SEI, Dr. Mead was a Senior Technical Staff Member at IBM Federal Systems, where she spent most of her career in development and management of large real-time systems. She also worked in IBM's software engineering technology area, and managed IBM Federal Systems' software engineering education department. She has developed and taught numerous courses on software engineering topics, both at universities and in professional education courses. She holds B.A. and M.S. degrees in Mathematics from New York University, and a Ph.D. in Mathematics from Polytechnic Institute of New York. She is a Senior Member of IEEE and IEEE Computer Society, and a member of ACM. Judith K. Weiss will address legal matters related to certification and licensing of technical professionals. Ms. Weiss is a partner at the law firm of Brown & Bain in Phoenix, Arizona. Her practice focuses primarily in the areas of technology transfer, corporate and securities matters, municipal bond financing and health care. She has handled an extensive range of intellectual property matters, including: technology transfer; advice concerning, and formation of, joint ventures and partnerships for development of technology; licensing of patents, copyrights, and trademarks; acquisition and disposition of computer hardware and software; representation of borrowers and lenders in transactions secured by intellectual property; distribution agreements, including international agreements; and research and development agreements. Prior to joining Brown & Bain, Ms. Weiss was a senior attorney at Schnader, Harrison, Segal & Lewis in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She received her J.D. from Ohio State University summa cum laude and is admitted to practice in Arizona, New York and Pennsylvania.