Partition-based morphology is an approach of finite-state morphology where a grammar describes a special kind of regular relations, which split all the strings of a given tuple into the same number of substrings. They are compiled in finite-state machines. In this paper, we address the question of merging grammars using different partitionings into a single finite-state machine. A morphological description may then be obtained by parallel or sequential application of constraints expressed on different partition notions (e.g. morpheme, phoneme, grapheme). The theory of Mazurkiewicz Trace Languages, a well known semantics of parallel systems, provides a way of representing and compiling such a description. 1 Partition-Based Morphology Finite-State Morphology is based on the idea that regular relations are an appropriate formalism to describe the morphology of a natural language. Such a relation is a set of pairs, the first component being an actual form called surface form, the second component being an abstract description of this form called lexical form. It is usually implemented by a finitestate transducer. Relations are not oriented, so the same transducer may be used both for analysis and generation. They may be non-deterministic, when the same form belongs to several pairs. Furthermore, finite state machines have interesting properties, they are composable and efficient. There are two main trends in Finite-State Morphology: rewrite-rule systems and two-level rule systems. Rewrite-rule systems describe the morphology of languages using contextual rewrite rules which are easily applied in cascade. Rules are compiled into finite-state transducers and merged using transducer composition (Kaplan and Kay, 1994). The other important trend of Finite-State Morphology is Two-Level Morphology (Koskenniemi, 1983). In this approach, not only pairs of lexical and surface strings are related, but there is a one-to-one correspondence between their symbols. It means that the two strings of a given pair must have the same length. Whenever a symbol of one side does not have an actual counterpart in the other string, a special symbol 0 is inserted at the relevant position in order to fulfill the same-length constraint. For example, the correspondence between the surface form spies and the morpheme concatenation spy+s is given as follows: s p y 0 + s s p i e 0 s Same-length relations are closed under intersection, so two-level grammars describe a system as the simultaneous application of local constraints. A third approach, Partition-Based Morphology, consists in splitting the strings of a pair into the same number of substrings. The same-length constraint does not hold on symbols but on substrings. For example, spies and spy+s may be partitioned as follows: s p y + s s p ie s The partition-based approach was first proposed by (Black et al., 1987) and further improved by (Pulman and Hepple, 1993) and (Grimley-Evans et al.,