The Transformatlonal question Answering (TqA) system was developed over a period of time beginning in the early part of the last decade and continuing to the present. Its syntactic component is a transformational grammar parser [1, 2, ~], and its semantic Gomponqnt is a Knuth attribute grammor [~, 5]. The combination of these components providQs sufficiQnt generality, conveniQnga, and efficiency to implement a broad range of linguistic models; in addition to a wide spectrum of transformational grammars, Gilder-type phrase structure grammar [6] and lexigal functional grammar [7] systems appear to be cases in point, for example. The Particular grammar Nhich was, in fact, developed, however, was closest tO those of the genQrative semantics variety of trsnsformationel grammar; both the underlying structures assigned to sQntences and the transformations employed to effect that assignmQnt traced their origins to the generative semantics model. The system ~orks by finding the undQrlying structures corresponding tO English queries through the use of the transformational parsing facility. Those underlying structures are then translated to logical forms in a domain relationol calculus by the Knuth attribute grammar component. Evaluation of logical forms with respect to a given data base completes the question-answering process. Our first logical form evaluator took the form of a toy implementation of a relational data base system in LISP. We soon reelaced the low level tuple retrieval facilities of this implementation with the RSS (Relational StorogQ System) portion of the IBM System R [8], This version of logicol form evoluation was the one employed in the field testing to be dQscribed. In a more recent version of the system, however, it has been replacod by a translation of logical forms, first to equivalent logical forms in a set domain relational calculus and then to appropriate expressions in the 5el language, SystQm RIs high level query language. The first data base to which the system was applied was one concerning business statistics such as the sales, earnings, number of employees, etc. of 60 large companies over a five-year Period. This was a toy data base, to be sure, but it was useful tO US in developing our System. A later dota base contained the basic land identification records of about 10,000 parcels of land in a city nQar our research center. It WaS developed for use by members of the city planning departmQnt and (less frequently) other departments to answQr questions concerning the information in …