In this paper, we undertake the first study of statistical multiplexing from the perspective of approximation algorithms. The basic issue underlying statistical multiplexing is the following: in high-speed networks, individual connections (i.e., communication sessions) are very bursty, with transmission rates that vary greatly over time. As such, the problem of packing multiple connections together on a link becomes more subtle than in the case when each connection is assumed to have a fixed demand. We consider one of the most commonly studied models in this domain: that of two communicating nodes connected by a set of parallel edges, where the rate of each connection between them is a random variable. We consider three related problems: (1) stochastic load balancing, (2) stochastic bin-packing, and (3) stochastic knapsack. In the first problem the number of links is given and we want to minimize the expected value of the maximum load. In the other two problems the link capacity and an allowed overflow probability p are given, and the objective is to assign connections to links, so that the probability that the load of a link exceeds the link capacity is at most p. In binpacking we need to assign each connection to a link using as few links as possible. In the knapsack problem each connection has a value, and we have only one link. The problem is to accept as many connections as possible. For the stochastic load balancing problem we give an O(1)-approximation algorithm for arbitrary random variables. For the other two problems we have algorithms restricted to on-off sources (the most common special case studied in the statistical multiplexing literature), with a somewhat weaker range of performance guarantees. A standard approach that has emerged for dealing with probabilistic resource requirements is the notion of effective bandwidth—this is a means of associating a fixed demand with a bursty connection that “represents” its distribution as closely as possible. Our approximation algorithms make use of the standard definition of effective bandwidth and also a new one that we introduce; the performance guarantees are based on new results showing that a combination of these measures can be used to provide bounds on the optimal solution.