Competitive pressures drive companies towards the implementation of process-aware information systems. In order to support a broad spectrum of business processes a process management system (PMS) must be flexible at run-time. This includes the support of ad-hoc deviations from the predefined process model, their memorization and reuse, and the support of changes of the underlying business process itself. To tackle this problem we developed the conversational case-based reasoning (CCBR) component CCBRTool. This paper presents CCBRTools’s architecture and its major use cases and discusses some of its applications in the process management domain. Introduction Competitive pressures drive companies towards the implementation of process-aware information systems. These systems are characterized by the separation of process logic and application code. The business processes are explicitly described as process models and executed accordingly. However, in order to effectively support a company’s business processes, process management systems (PMS) must be flexible at run-time and support deviations from the predefined flow of work (Reichert & Dadam 1998; Jorgensen 2004). When exceptional situations are handled in a too rigid manner, users are forced to bypass the system, resulting in limited traceability and information loss. Some PMS recognize the need for more flexible systems and support the definition of ad-hoc modifications for a single process instance. However, when the same or similar exceptions occur more than once, a new ad-hoc modification has to be defined each time. In addition, the knowledge about exceptions is not kept in the system and thus lost. Due to this, memorization and reuse of exceptional knowledge is highly desirable and should be supported by the PMS. When similar exceptions occur frequently they should no longer be dealt with in an ad-hoc way, but should be covered by updating the process model itself. Frequent similar exceptions indicate that the process model does not adequately reflect the realworld business process. The process engineer should then Copyright c © 2005, American Association for Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. be supported by the PMS to utilize the collected knowledge for improving the process model at hand. To tackle this problem we developed the conversational case-based reasoning (CCBR) component CCBRTool. This paper presents CCBRTools’s architecture and its major use cases. Further, we briefly describe CBRFlow (Weber, Wild, & Breu 2004), DLE (Dynamic Logic Engine) and ADEPT (Reichert & Dadam 1998), three applications using CCBRTool in the context of process management. CBRFLOW and DLE both help the process user in exceptional situations by invoking CCBRTool to collect relevant data and to support its reuse (Weber, Wild, & Breu 2004). In addition, the adaptive PMS ADEPT uses CCBRTool to derive process improvements and to continuously adapt the process model to the living process (Weber et al. 2005b; Rinderle et al. 2005). Overview of CCBRTool CCBRTool is a CCBR system developed for the process management domain. However, it can be easily adapted to other domains. This section presents CCBRTool’s architecture as well as its major use cases.