The past few years Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) has risen from being a concept promoted by few to become one of the most important architecture styles enterprises are trying to adopt. Though many of the bases upon which SOA is founded are not new, its link to achieving business results makes it very appealing.
 However, as with any new and promising concept, a great deal of hype is associated with SOA, which could spell trouble for both its promoters and those committed to its adoption. Today there are no shortage of claims from both believers and doubters of its benefits. There are many challenges facing its early adopters as well as missing capabilities needed to support all business needs. The next few years are critical to the success of SOA. To silence its doubters and live up to its high expectations, SOA must evolve and extend to incorporate features from other emerging paradigms, techniques, and architectures.
 This panel will address the challenges facing enterprises in their attempts to adopt SOA and realize its full benefits, and will shed some light on the future of SOA.
 The panelists will be asked to address the following questions: 1) Is SOA a revolution which requires a paradigm shift (similar to OO for example)? Or is it an evolution? And what are the challenges? 2) What aspects of current SOAs work well? What evidence do we have? Do we have specific quantified cases showing the business benefits for an enterprise as a result of adopting SOA? 3) What didn't work? (For example, high overhead, performance, methodology, etc.) 4) What does the future hold for SOA? And what are the priorities? (For example, should SOA adopt a light-weight approach similar to Web 2.0, or focus on building Composite Services? How would SOA address 'user needs' Should future SOA enhancements focus on incorporating Event Driven Architecture? Or on providing Hardware as a Service (HaaS)? 5) How do we support larger transaction action based services that can be composed of many smaller autonomous services?..