We introduce and use a new methodology for the study of logics for action and change. The methodology allows one to define a taxonomy of reasoning problems, based in particular on the properties of the actions in those worlds where the actions take place, and on the au-toepistemic assumptions that are being made. For each of a number of previously proposed logics, we have identified a corresponding class in the taxonomy, and proved that for reasoning problems within that class, the logic is guaranteed to obtain exactly the intended set of conclusions. 1 Logics of action and change: a problem of verification There has been much research in recent years on methods for reasoning about actions and change, and on finding solutions to the so-called "frame problems". New variants of nonmonotonic logics for common-sense reasoning have been proposed, only to be quickly refuted by counterexamples. Unfortunately the results that have been obtained in this fashion are notoriously unreliable. According to the standard research methodology in the area, the evidence in favor of a proposed logic should consist of intuitive plausibility arguments and a small number of scenario examples for which the logic is proven (or claimed) to give the intended conclusions and no others. Clearly there is a need for more systematic results, where a proposed logic is verified for a whole class of reasoning problems and not only for single examples. Recently, Lin and Shoham[LS9l], Lifschitz[Lif9l], and Reiter[Rei9l] have reported such correctness results for several nonmonotonic logics which are based on the situation calculus. Their approach has been to relate a non-monotonic theory over a certain set of "common-sense" axioms, to a monotonic theory over a larger set of axioms. In this paper I present another approach which differs from these previous authors in three ways. It addresses logics with explicit time, such as the integers, and not only the situation calculus. This allows one to deal with actions with extended duration, and to analyze plans where the order of the actions is indetermined. Also it is based on an underlying semantics which captures basic notions of intelligent agents. This is hoped to facilitate the use of these results for the design of practical autonomous agents. Finally, rather than starting with a fixed class of reasoning problems and analyzing whether a single, proposed logic is correct or not for that class, I start by defining a taxonomy of reasoning …