persons. As a group, those extensions mark an expanding societal definition of "pet son." It may fairly be said that, as time has passed, the test of personality has focused more on behavior than on appearance , and more on mental traits than on physical ones. Western thinking has come to disfavor tests of personality based on "status" (ownership of property, religious affiliation) or "structure" (gender, race); those tests were invoked, and defeated, almost every time a new group was added to the roster of persons. Accordingly, recognition has generally been extended to groups whose members have demonstrated the capacity to behave in a manner indicating that they th ink more like legal persons than like anything else. The initial question is therefore whether there could exist circumstances such that a decision-maker could examine the behavior of a computer system and decide that the machine had crossed the threshold of legal personality. It seems nearly inevitable that the issue will arise in our increasingly computerized society; science fiction literature abounds with proposed factual scenarios in which that legal issue could be presented. The real question is whether current or foreseeable law provides a plausible foundation for a determination of computer personality. It is possible that a decision concerning computer personality could come from the executive or legislative branches of government. Popular opinion can find expression through those channels when the judiciary is unwilling or incapable of treating ascertainable entities as persons even though society as a whole perceives them as such. An example of such a legislative determination is the Twenty sixth Amendment (forbidding discrimination against 18-21 year olds). Perhaps the most obvious historical example of recognition by executive mandate was the freeing of black slaves who had previously been considered ABSTRACT American Constitutional law grants the status of "person" to the members of certain groups, but denies that status to other groups. Various legal analogies could be used to determine whether such status should be extended to computer systems and, if so, what limitations should be placed upon that recognition.* The concept of legal "personality" in United states constitutional law has changed considerably over the years. An ever-increasing number of groups of ascer-tainable entities have been recognized as persons under the law, and the rights and obligations accruing to the members of those groups have changed more than they have remained constant. The general question is thus presented of …