Recherche Scientifique; Institut de Recherche en Musicologie, Paris). In a nutshell, doubt was cast over the attractive anonymous portrait at Versailles (perhaps the sitter is not François Couperin), and new light was shed on extant exemplars of an engraving by Jean-Charles Flippart () after a lost portrait of the composer by André Boys. Davitt Moroney gave a fascinating fifty-minute lecture-recital entitled ‘La Couperinéïté de Couperin, or What makes Couperin Couperin?’. He proposed a dozen features that ‘catch my attention when I listen and that I find it fruitful to draw attention to while playing’. It was a masterful integration of artistic ideas, observations on compositional style and important issues of performance practice, demonstrated by playing of elegant fluidity. There were three papers on ‘Performance and Posterity’. Chloé Dos Reis (Sorbonne Université) discussed the notation of ornaments in Couperin’s published harpsichord pieces, referring to them as ‘testimony to a transition between two schools’. She questioned whether or not there was an evolution of aesthetics informing practices of embellishment by French keyboardist players between Chambonnières (whose first book of harpsichord pieces was published in ) and Couperin’s Premier livre de pièces de clavecin of . Dos Reis suggested that Couperin inherited ideas about ornaments from his predecessors (Jean-Henri d’Anglebert, Louis Marchand, Louis-Nicolas Clérambault and others) but also created a personal style. A lecture-recital by harpsichordists Emer Buckley (Dublin) and Jochewed Schwarz (Tel Aviv) presented practical and artistic issues that arise when playing Couperin’s chamber sonatas from Les Nations () on two harpsichords. Supported by copious performed examples, they proposed that playing chamber music for multiple instruments on two keyboards might have been a practice that Couperin encouraged in domestic and teaching situations. Buckley and Schwarz described how their preparations for recording assorted pieces for two albums (Toccata Classics) required them to find more flexible and creative solutions than merely playing four parts with four hands. To conclude, Susan Daniels (a PhD student at King’s College London) delivered an excellent paper on the Australian émigrée Louise Dyer (later Louise Hanson-Dyer), whose immersion in the cultural boom of Paris in the early s inspired her to launch the publishing company Éditions de L’Oiseau-Lyre that played such a vital part in reviving interest in long-neglected French ‘early music’. Dyer sponsored the pioneering Œuvres complètes de François Couperin, and even made some personal interventions with the scholars who undertook the musicological work. It was a fitting climax to a symposium that reconfirmed Couperin’s stature as a monumental French baroque composer whose music continues to fascinate and inspire scholars, musicians and audiences.