Welcome to the 2015 ACM SIGCOMM Conference, and welcome to London! 
 
This year, a program committee of 49 networking researchers reviewed a total of 242 submissions. Reviewing was double-blind, and review assignment avoided conflicts of interest as defined in the submission instructions posted on the SIGCOMM 2015 web site. The PC's composition represented the breadth of the community: from industry and academia, with expertise across the range of topics within the field of networking. Roughly a third of the PC consisted of members serving for the first time. The PC included members of the EE communications research community whose work overlaps physical-layer topics of interest to SIGCOMM. The PC was augmented by 37 outside domain expert reviewers. 
 
The PC and the domain experts together wrote more than 1100 reviews over three rounds of reviewing. The PC met in person on April 23rd and 24th, 2015, in Redmond, Washington, to select the final program. During the one and a half-day PC meeting, the PC discussed 74 papers, each of which had received between 5 and 8 reviews; the result is this outstanding final program of 40 papers. A PC member shepherded every accepted paper to assist the authors in improving their work for the paper's camera-ready version. We share the PC's strong enthusiasm for the work appearing in the program, and hope that you enjoy reading the papers and hearing the presentations at the conference. 
 
We are particularly excited to introduce a new track, the Experience Track, to SIGCOMM this year. This track, as the CFP stated, is for "experience papers on the design, analysis, and evaluation of techniques in commercial or otherwise widely used deployment." Our aim in creating this track is for SIGCOMM to help extend the community's knowledge of how known techniques fare in realistic settings, and particularly in settings that most in the community cannot duplicate, for reasons of scale or otherwise. 
 
To allow the Best Paper Award to reflect not only the content of the camera-ready papers, but also the reception work receives from the community at the conference-particularly in questions and answers following a presentation-the SIGCOMM 2015 Best Paper Award will be decided at the conference, and will be announced at the start of the conference's third day. Papers with any authors in conflict with either PC chair are excluded from consideration for a Best Paper Award.