We report on a two-part longitudinal study of computer-supportedcooperative work. It focuses on the impact of coordinating andenabling technologies through an examination of computer-supportedinformation exchange patterns. Colleagues were required to worktogether to complete a project within a specified time frame. Thepatterns of information exchange observed in this environmentprovide evidence as to which aspects of groupware are perceived ashelpful by users, and provide an impetus for further research.
The objectives of this research are to: 1) examine patterns ofinformation exchange in order to provide descriptive data on theprocess of using groupware; and 2) identify factors that need to beconsidered for effective and efficient use of groupware in a CSCWenvironment. The two studies allow for an investigation of thedifference between 1) small novice-user groups formed across classsections (locations) with each group responsible for developing acomplete proposal and 2) a large experienced-user group formallydivided into subgroups, with each subgroup responsible fordeveloping a portion of a proposal.
In the first study, participants were graduate students in anadvanced information systems course. The research task was todevelop a proposal for a company with inventory data control andother related problems (inefficient production layouts and machineutilization) in a simulated business information systems consultingenvironment. There were six teams with four or five participants oneach team. Each team was split across two sections of the course.Differential information was provided to each section and teammembers were encouraged to use the groupware for communicationsconcerning the project. The participants were novice users of thesoftware.
In the second study, participants were graduate students in adata communications and networking course. All nine had taken theprevious course and were experienced with the groupware. Theresearch task was a team network analysis and design project.Participants were encouraged to use the groupware forcommunications as in Study 1. They were divided into three teams ofthree, with one team responsible for the LAN portion of theproposal, the second team responsible for the WAN portion, and thethird team responsible for the integration of the LAN and WANmaterial, and for the development of the proposal package. Agraduate student who had previously taken the course acted asproject manager.
After participants had completed the two projects, the messageswere categorized using a previously developed coding scheme. Themessage frequency and type yielded descriptive informationregarding the impact of the technology on interactions amongparticipants, and the relationship between decision outcomes andpatterns of information exchange.
The findings include: 1) the groupware used needs to be matchedto the task, group structure, and environment; 2) minimal socialuse of the system occurred over time; 3) the message mix tended toshift from scheduling and coordinating efforts to task-relatedefforts as deadlines loomed; and 4) the system provided descriptiveinformation on team work habits. These patterns and otherqualitative data gathered from participants provide insight intothe use of the groupware, group behavior, and the importance ofgroup structure, task, and environment.