ZettaRAM/spl trade/ is a new memory technology under development by ZettaCore/spl trade/ as a potential replacement for conventional DRAM. The key innovation is replacing the conventional capacitor in each DRAM cell with "charge-storage" molecules - a molecular capacitor. We look beyond ZettaRAM's manufacturing benefits, and approach it from an architectural viewpoint to discover benefits within the domain of architectural metrics. The molecular capacitor is unusual because the amount of charge deposited (critical for reliable sensing) is independent of write voltage, i.e., there is a discrete threshold voltage above/below which the device is fully charged/discharged. Decoupling charge from voltage enables manipulation via arbitrarily small bitline swings, saving energy. However, while charge is voltage-independent, speed is voltage-dependent. Operating too close to the threshold causes molecules to overtake peripheral circuitry as the overall performance limiter. Nonetheless, ZettaRAM offers a speed/energy trade-off whereas DRAM is inflexible, introducing new dimensions for architectural management of memory. We apply architectural insights to tap the full extent of ZettaRAM's power savings without compromising performance. Several factors converge nicely to direct focus on L2 writebacks: (i) they account for 80% of row buffer misses in the main memory, thus most of the energy savings potential, and (ii) they do not directly stall the processor and thereby offer scheduling flexibility for tolerating extended molecule latency. Accordingly, slow writes (low energy) are applied to non-critical writebacks and fast writes (high energy) to critical fetches. The hybrid write policy is combined with two options for tolerating delayed writebacks: large buffers with access reordering or L2-cache eager writebacks. Eager writebacks are remarkably synergistic with ZettaRAM: initiating writebacks early in the L2 cache compensates for delaying them at the memory controller. Dual-speed writes coupled with eager writebacks yields energy savings of 34% (out of 41% with uniformly slow writes), with less than 1% performance degradation.