The fields of scientific and information visualization are multidisciplinary by their nature. Most of the visualization problems solved and published since the advent of “Visualization in Scientific Computing” in 1987 [MDB87] have been posted by disciplines other than computer science. Building bridges between disciplines to derive at the most expressive and effective visual presentations for particular users and specific visualization aims has been an inherent part of doing visualization in the past, including Renaissance Teams [Cox88] or knowledge-based visualization systems, e.g. [GTD97], [GLLS97]. With the expansion into Visual Analytics, we are involving even more disciplines in the solution part, and harnessing new problem domains. By these reasons or others, we tend to see more often a mixture of students of different disciplines in our visualization courses than in other courses that we teach out of the computer science department. Having students of different disciplines in one course is a challenge as well as a great opportunity. Gerhard Fischer [DF05] states: “If the world of working and living relies on collaboration, creativity, definition and framing of complex problems – and if it requires dealing with uncertainty, change, and intelligence that is distributed across cultures, disciplines, and tools – then [university] programs should foster transdisciplinary competencies and mindsets that prepare students for having meaningful and productive lives in such a world.” Thus, we can see our visualization courses that host students of multiple disciplines as an opportunity for our students to develop abilities they might not gain in any other course. Computer science students would learn to collaborate with other disciplines, get ready to tackle complex, real life problems, and end up with a new view of the opportunities and limitations of their own field. Students of other disciplines might be drawn into computer science or math concepts they did not know they cared about [FIS05a] and together a new understanding of the problem at hand and its solution might evolve. But as well as a great opportunity, teaching students of multiple disciplines in one class room provides quite a challenge: finding a common basis from which to teach from, hoping to interest all of them, allowing for meaningful collaboration between them and expanding each knowledge domain. This paper offers a basis to distinguish between multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary courses as applied to visualization courses and offers two strategies to aid collaboration between students in such courses: in this sense it is meant to supply a practical and tactical foundation for teaching interdisciplinary visualization courses. This paper does not intent to provide content for (multidisciplinary) visualization courses; for content of such courses the website www.uni-paderborn.de/cs/vis is being referred to.