Set* We present an O(n2 log3 n) algorithm for the two-center problem, in which we are given a set S of n points in the plane and wish to find two closed discs whose union contains 5' so that the larger of the two radii is ss small as possible. We also give an O(rz2 log5 n) algorithm for solving the two-line center problem, where we want to find two strips that cover S whose maximum width is as small as possible. To obtain the second result, we need as a subroutine an algorithm for determining whether the width of a given set S of points in the plane ever becomes less than or equal to a given parameter W > 0, as we perform n insertions and deletions on S, and the sequence of these operatiom is known in advance. We present an O(n log3 n) algorithm for solving this problem. 1 Introduction In this paper we consider the following three problems involving a set S of n points in R2: Two-center problem: Find two closed discs whose union contains S so that the larger radius of the two discs is as small aa possible. + Ivlicha Sharir+ the Width of a Planar Two-line center problem: union contains S so that Find two strips whose the larger width of the two strips is as small aa possible. Off-line dynamic maintenance of width: Given a real parameter W >0 and a sequence Z= (al,..., cm) of n insert/delete operations on S, determine whether there is any i such that the width of S after the it h operation is at most w. The two-center problem is a special case of a basic problem in geometric location theory. It is an intermediate version between the simpler l-center problem , which can be solved in linear time [21, 18], and the general p-center problem (seeking p discs of minimal maximum radius whose union covers S), which can be solved in time no(p), and is NP-complete when p is part of the input the two-line center problem is an intermediate version between the l-line center problem, which can be solved in O(n log n) time by computing the width of S, and the general p-line center problem, which is again known to be NP-complete [23]. The running time of the best previously known algorithms for both of these problems is 0(n3) [8]. In …