Computer science education has ceased to b e the exclusive interest of the computer science department . Virtually all university science an d engineering departments have computers. In the near future computing power will be routinely available in the humanities and creative arts a s well. However, in spite of the proliferation o f computers, it is still possible for a student t o receive an advanced education which does not mention the computer. Such an omission would be understandable if it were a technical tool limite d to specialized use. However, the computer is a culture defining instrument which will shortl y permeate every aspect of American life. Give n its encroaching significance, it is crucial tha t computer scientists consider the problem of reaching non-technical as well as technical students. In addition, the traditional computer scienc e course usually has all students spend a semeste r doing identical exercises, which are ultimatel y thrown away. This approach may have made sens e when computers cost millions and students neede d a standardized set of skills in order to get a job. However, at this point in time, with cost s plummeting, it is reasonable to encourage student s to assemble their own unique set of tools so tha t they can create as well as fill jobs. The new economics has also expanded the potential for new research and development. Government and industry funding cannot support the amount of work required to exploit all of the possibilities. To assure that this promise is fulfilled, individuals must be motivated to provide their own tim e and resources. Computer science education shoul d create artists, inventors and entrepreneurs a s well as specialized professionals. This paper describes an approach to compute r science education which has been successfull y used at the University of Wisconsin to introduc e groups of diverse students from the liberal arts , social sciences and technology to the computer. The first section discusses the conceptual basi s for the course and the method of implementatio n which was used in the past. The second sectio n considers the benefits of this type of course fo r students from each of several specific disciplines. The final section describes the type of facilit y necessary to implement the course. The Cours e The format was an informal course which I designed and taught at the University of …