Science and Automation) is a French scientific and technological institute from the public sector (under the authority of the Ministry for Research and the Ministry of Industry). The main general assignments of INRIA are: 1) basic research 2) design of experimental systems 3) technology transfer to industry 4) knowledge transfer and international scientific exchanges and cooperation. The budget in 1988 was about $ 55 millions (20 % of which coming from contracts, royalties, sales...). Among the 900 persons who are currently working in the institute, 600 are scientists:-220 full-time researchers-220 scholars and trainees-40 invited foreign researchers (long term stays)-80 researchers fxom other public laboratories-40 engineers from industry The institute has a flexible organization based on small units called "projects". Over 50 projects are conducting research in 8 main areas: The laboratory The Ergonomics Psychology Project is working in the area of "man-computer communication". The general goal of the project is to contribute to a better compatibility between the cognitive activity of the user and the functioning of the computer (software) when both are cooperating. Basic research concerns human information processing mainly in problem solving situations (non routine activity). Three aspects of cognitive activity are particularly investigated: planning of actions by experts, dialogue activities, action-oriented knowledge acquisition and evolution of experience. The main classes of tasks which are studied are:-clerical tasks (office automation)-design: • software design and particularly user-interfaces design; • machine tools design, • composite material pieces design, • traffic light setting;-process supervision (nuclear power plant);-domestic tasks (housing automation) • The key characteristics of our methodology-real life setting and task analysis: in order to specify more classical laboratory experiments, most research starts by mean of tasks analysis methods applied in the field, on real life complex tasks. experiments with cognitive methods (especially "protocol analysis");-modelling : an expected outcome is often to build and validate cognitive activities models by means of computer simulation; specification and prototyping of man-computer interfaces and dialogues.