Welcome to Onward!. Onward! is the place for presenting original and radically different ideas for programming languages, software engineering, and applications. Onward! takes a broad and inclusive view of computation and in particular, has encouraged contributions infl uenced by other disciplines such as art, philosophy, We consider Onward! the place for presentation of not so well proven but well argued ideas including ground-breaking ideas at an early stage, where empirical validation is not yet possible. There is also an increasing need to describe systems and projects whose results are diffi cult to explain to non-experts, such as the behavior of long-running software systems—for such a system, a fi lm as opposed to a real-time demo might be the better medium. Early ideas and non-textual presentations of systems are usually rejected by program committees—often properly because many of them lead indeed to vaporware. But some of them have been the source for revolutions in hardware and software, in theory as well as in practice. Conferences where these types of ideas can be communicated, discussed, and scrutinized in a thorough manner have become rare. Onward! is designed to be the forum where nascent ideas can be presented and discussed in a conference setting. There is still a long way to go to completely realize this concept, but I think the fi nal contributions selected for this year's conference are a very good step in this direction. The Onward! keynote speaker is Thomas W. Malone, one of the thought leaders on how collective intelligence and information technology enable new types of project organization. Onward! also offers a wild mix of workshop topics covering software development environments, fragile ideas, usability, the culture of programming languages, and green computing. Groundbreaking ideas are provided in the essay and research papers sessions. We have also established a session called " Innovation in Progress, " which focuses on emerging ideas. A panel on green software will discuss the impact of hardware and software systems on earth's carbon foot print. Feature and short fi lms round out the conference with the presentation of software systems and ideas from unusual perspectives. I am looking forward to a great conference. Welcome to Onward!. Onward! is the place for presenting original and radically different ideas for programming languages, software engineering, and applications. Onward! takes a broad and inclusive view of computation and in particular, has encouraged contributions infl uenced by other disciplines …