One of the main challenges in telerobotics is the selection of control architectures and control parameters , which are able to robustly stabilize the overall teleoperation system despite of changing human operator and environment impedances. In this paper robust stability of different types of bilateral control algorithms for admittance type devices is analyzed. Hereby stability of the system is investigated by using the parameter space approach, which allows the analysis of uncertain systems with varying plant parameters. Simple linear models are assumed for human operator, humansystem-interface, teleoperator as well as remote environment. The parameter space method is used for controller design as well as for robustness analysis. FinallyΓ-stability of the presented architectures is evaluated for a one degree of freedo m mechatronic teleoperation system. I. I NTRODUCTION In a teleoperation system a human operator controls a remotely located teleoperator by a human-system-interfac . Fig. 1 shows a typical bilateral teleoperation system forme d by the main components human operator, human system interface, communication channel, teleoperator, and envi ro ment. Hereby master and slave devices are controlled by local controllers, which are coupled with each other over the communication channel. Since the human operator can behave in vary different ways and interact with different kind of remote environments ranging from free space to hard contact, one of the main challenges in telerobotics is the selection of robustly stable control architectures a nd corresponding control parameters. Typical approaches are either based on the passivity theorem [1], see e.g. [2]–[4], or the analysis of absolute stability by using Llewellyns stab ility criteria [5], see [6], [7] for examples. But the drawback of these approaches is that a passive human operator and remote environment have to be assumed. This work aims at analyzing stability by using the so called parameter space approach, which allows the analysis of uncertain systems with varying plant parameters. The parameter space method is used in a first step for controller design and in a second step for robustness analysis. human human system interface teleoperator operator remote environment communication channel (master) (slave) Fig. 1. Bilateral teleoperation system A. Peer, and M. Buss are with the Institute of Automatic Control Engineering, Technische Universit ät München, Germany. Angelika.Peer@tum.de, mb@tum.de In the following section different types of bilateral control architectures for admittance type devices are present d. Sec. III shows the principle of the parameter space approach and Sec. IV introduces the models used for stability analysi s. Finally in Sec. V robust stability of the presented control architectures is analyzed for a one degree of freedom mechatronic teleoperation system. II. B ILATERAL CONTROL ARCHITECTURES FOR ADMITTANCE TYPE DEVICES Control architectures for bilateral teleoperation system s are commonly classified according to the number and kind of variables transmitted between the master and the slave device, see [8] for an overview. In the often employed twochannel force-position architecture positions and forces are exchanged between master and slave, whereby the master (slave) is under local force (position) control, see e.g. [9 ] While for impedance type devices, which are characterized by very light-weight constructions with low inertia and friction, high performance force controllers can be implemented, for admittance type devices, force control can only be realized with a very poor performance [10]. This is mainly due to the high dynamic properties and friction effects of admittance type devices, which can only be compensated by using some kind of low level position controller. For further details on impedance and admittance type devices se e [11]. On this account classical bilateral control architec tures with local force control are usually not very appropriate fo r teleoperation systems using admittance type master and sla ve devices. Commonly admittance type devices are controlled by using a so called position-based admittance control architecture, see [10]. Depending on the application, such an architecture can be either used to render a target dynamics o r to achieve a certain compliant behavior when being in contac t with the environment. In both cases the desired behavior is achieved by implementing impedances in form of simple mass-spring-damper systems f = Mẍ + Bẋ + Kx, (1) wherebyx are positions,f are forces andM means the mass,B the damping andK the stiffness matrix. When rendering desired impedances, as shown in Fig. 2, the impedance is used to implement a desired target dynamics, e.g. the dynamics of a tool, which is attached to the end-effector. When trying to achieve a compliant behavior, as shown in Fig. 3, the impedance is used to modulate the desired positionxd, whereby the stiffness parameter defines an upper bound of displayable stiffnesses. In both cases the impedance is lower bounded due to actuator limitations.