1. INTRODUCTION Ideally, a quantum computation is a sequence of local uni-tary transformations applied to a register of qubits which are initially in the state 10n); followed by a measurement. Initializing the state of the quantum register is the biggest challenge in NMR quantum computing (which is perhaps the most advanced technology in terms of the scale of experiments performed to date [2]). The difficulty is that the register is actually initially in (approximately) the binomial distribution over pure states ]x), in which each qubit is independently in the state ]0) with probability 12-~; the currently achievable polarization e is quite small. There are currently two ways of implementing quantum computation in this technology. The first is used in current experiments [5; 3], but does not scale beyond several qubits-the output signal decreases exponentially in the number of qubits in the quantum register) The second does scale, but is not feasible at the currently achievable values of polarization in liquid NMR [10]. An intriguing third possibility was raised in [7]. Suppose we start with one qubit in the pure state [0) in tensor product with n-1 qubits in a maximally mixed state (i.e. in a uniform distribution over basis states Ix)). Is it possible to simulate general quantum computation by effecting a sequence of elementary quantum operations on this register? If the answer were affirmative, this would yield a procedure that would both scale and be currently feasible using the scalable initialization procedure to convert the initial binomial state to a state where the last n-1 qubits are maximally mixed and the first bit has high polarization IThe exponential decay in signal to noise ratio in any scheme that embeds virtual pure states on an n-qubit quantum com-uter with one clean qubit is unavoidable, due to the result ]. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without tee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the lull citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. (the strength of the output signal is now proportional to this polarization). This is the question we focus on in this paper. It is easy to see that if all …