In a world inhabited by numerous agents pursuing distinct goals, conflicts are inevitable. To succeed in the environment, an agent must explicitly reason about the behaviors of other agents as well as itself, and be prepared to find new behaviors that are more coordinated. Because traditional AI has had great success viewing problem solving as a search in a problem space, we have chosen to represent the process of coordination as a distributed search (Durfee eZ al. 1994). In searching through a joint behavior space for coherent coordination patterns, an agent must observe three kinds of constraints: its abilities, its goals, and the activities of other agents in the environment. The nature of the third constraint is dependent on the abilities and goals of the other agents in the environment. Knowledge of other agents’ planned actions is often sufficient for conflict avoidance; however, the ability to reason about alternative activities not only for oneself but for other agents requires deeper modeling of them. Our concept of the behavior as a modeling structure contains not only spatial and temporal information about agents’ actions but also represents their goals and capabilities. With this modeling information an agent can reason from other agents’ goals and capabilities to arrive at likely alternative behaviors for them and itself. We call this local search. Depending on the distribution of knowledge among the agents, local search might occur at any number of agents. Our approach complements the distributed search process of (Durfee & Montgomery 1991)’ which emphasized the efficient propagation of information among agents rather than the local search of an individual agent. We are investigating local search in the producerconsumer-transporter (PCT) domain, by implementing a search for coordination patterns for solving package delivery problems. In a PCT problem, “producers” create objects that must be delivered by “transporters” to %onsumer” agents, who cause the objects to disappear. Representing coordination schemes as a hierarchy of behaviors, we have been able to generate many different agent organizations by decomposing according to agent goals and agent capa-