Electronic catalogs are the front-end to the rapidly evolving Internet-baaed global marketplace, and the gateway to a company through which customers can obtain product information , order goods and services, make payments, access customer support, and provide feedback around the clock and from anywhere in the world. This paper presents an overview of electronic catalogs technology and the results from a three-phase survey of over 100 companies. The study results indicate that most existing catalogs provide only rudimentary functionalities, such as embedded graphics and simple browsing. Companies are successful in learning about the technology and in enhancing corporate image, but are not as successful in selling products. The two most important measures of catalog success are the number of visits per month and the percentage of visits resulting in sales, but the most widely used measure is the number of monthly visits. Two factors are found to have noticeable impact on the number of monthly visits: the level of overall investment in the catalog and the type of catalogs, i.e., standalone, mall, or embedded. 1 Introduction The Internet is rapidly transforming the way companies conduct their business. It is not only opening vast new opportunities but at the same time drastically changing existing business practices. With the advent of the World Wide Web (WWW), the Internet has become a platform that an increasing number of companies turn to for product and process innovations. The popular " Yahoo " index, for instance, contains pointers to over 20,000 commercial sites, many of which are virtual storefronts and provide products and services that can be ordered directlv online. and rm.id for via credit cards or other online payment methods. ' While the Internet has not yet become a mass market from which companies can actually derive sizeable revenues, the chance that this will become a reality is quite high. Hence, the current trend in distributing product and company information to customers and transacting 'business electronically is likely to Permission to make digital/hanl copies of all or part of tlds material for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that the copies a,renot ~de or distributed for profit or commercial advantage, the Gopy-nght notice, the titte of the publication and ita date appear, and notice is continue and perhaps accelerate. Electronic commerce refers to paperless business transactions which use technologies such as electronic data interchange (EDI), electronic mail, electronic funds transfer (EFT), …