This paper describes a survey course in computer science and the materials we have developed to support it. The course is distinctive in at least three ways. First, it presents a comprehensive, disciplinary survey of the field. Second, it emphasizes the principles upon which the discipline is based, stressing liberal education as opposed to technical training. Finally, it reflects our belief that one learns best by doing, as well as thinking, and so includes customized software in the form of HyperCard stacks to support an integrated, directed laboratory component. Our experience over the past year indicates that the audience appreciates this survey approach, that students come away with both a sense of accomplishment and a realistic feeling for the breadth and substance of the discipline, and that HyperCard is a superb medium for illustrating, demonstrating, and making accessible a wide range of computer science topics. 1. Problems With the Survey Course The problem with a survey course in computer science is twofold. First, there is no all-encompassing metaphor for computer science. Even the accepted definitions of the discipline admit to a variety of legitimate perspectives, and point to a multi-faceted, diverse field of study. Indeed, it appears that most of us are likely in the same position regarding computer science as Justice Stewart was regarding pornography: we may not be able to define it, but we know it when we see it [4]. Not surprisingly, the second problem has beenand continues to be-that there is no agreement about which perspective is appropriate for the survey course. In physics, chemistry, geology, and mathematics, in contrast, there is at least a partial consensus among professionals about the curriculum of the survey course, based upon decades or centuries of experience. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.