Over the past few years a lot of different information visualization techniques have been proposed. Being a relatively new and large field, the spectrum of emerging techniques has not clearly been identified. Another major consequence of the youthfulness of the field is that very few evaluation have been conducted so far. The aim of the panel will be to address these two points. First, panelist will characterize the spectrum of information visualization technology depending on tasks, users or data. Panelists will further discuss future trends in visualization technology by determining which are the most important features or challenges that information visualization systems should address. Second, the discussion will focus on how these systems m to be evaluated through controlled experiments, system evaluation, long-time studies, verbal protocols, theoretical evaluations, or else? INTRODUCTION Most information visualization systems that have been proposed over the past few years have been designed for very specific tasks, users or data structures. Characterizing the spectrum of information visualization technology often ends up in a long catalog of diffenmts ystem. Nevertheless, the field is now mature enough to extract from all these systems some of the main characteristics they share. The aim of the panel will be to determine the most important features of these systems and to discuss the future trends and challenges that they will have to face. Permission to make digital/hard copies of all or part of this material for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that the copies a~e not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage, the copyngbt notice, the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copyright is by permission of the ACM, Inc. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires specific permission andlor fee. UIST ’96 Seattle Washington USA @ 1996 ACM 0-89791-798-7/96/11 ..$3.50 Catherine Pk2isant A.V. Williams Building, University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742, U.S.A. Tel: +1 (301) 405-2768, Email: plaisant@cs.umd.edu Matthew Chalmers UBILAB