The approach of Multi-Perspective Enterprise Modelling is now more commonly accepted and used in practice as a way to manage knowledge than ever before. However, the concept of applying multiple modelling languages to describe the same domain may still sound frightening to many. In addition to the cost, time and complexity involved, problems such as knowledge sharing between multiple models and achieving and maintaining integrity between them are also important. We argue that Multi-Perspective Enterprise Modelling is helpful and in some situations necessary. This paper gives examples of how formal methods, such as logical languages, can provide assistance in making such an approach more appealing and transparent. We suggest that the MPM approach is valuable in representing, understanding and analysing a complex domain, but that much automated support is needed.12 Key-words Knowledge Management, Ontology, Knowledge Sharing, Multi-Perspective Modelling, Business Modelling, BSDM, Enterprise Modelling, Process Modelling, Knowledge-Based Support Tool, Business Process Re-Engineering, Role Activity and Communication Diagram. This paper reports a part of work carried out under AOEM project. The AOEM project is sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA under the contract number N66001-99-D-8608. The U.S. Government and the University of Edinburgh are authorised to reproduce and distribute reprints for their purposes notwithstanding any copyright annotation hereon. The views and conclusions contained herein are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as necessarily representing official policies or endorsements, either express or implied, of DARPA, the U.S. government or the University of Edinburgh. This paper will be published as a chapter of a Kluwer book. The paper is available at International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), Knowledge Management and Organizational Memories workshop proceedings at Seattle, Washington, August 2001.