2.1 Binary and weighted retrieval In information retrieval it is customary to represent each stored record and each information request by sets of content identifiers, or terms. The terms attached to the items may be assigned automatically or chosen manually; in either case, the terms used for a given item collectively represent the information content of the item. In conventional retrieval systems it is not customary to assign weights to the terms to designate term importance. Instead a term is either assigned to an item or it is not: when assigned, the term may be assumed to carry a weight of 1; otherwise, it carries a weight of 0. In standard retrieval a document is retrieved when it contains all the terms specified in the query. The use of unweighted terms is advantageous in the sense that the indexing operation-that is, the assignment of content identifiers to the items of a collection-is relatively simple. In that case, it is not necessary to consider the degree to which a given term may be useful to represent the content of an item: any term that appears at least marginally relevant is assigned to the corresponding item; the term is rejected when it is clearly extraneous. This kind of binary indexing simplifies the input processing; the retrieval operations, on the other hand, may become complicated by the fact that in a binary indexing system the documents retrieved in response to a given query are indistinguishable from one another. All retrieved items are treated as equally 'close' to the query, because the number of terms assigned jointly to the query and the retrieved items is the same for all items. This leads to the retrieval of potentially large classes of items that are difficult to deal with by the system user. In an interactive retrieval environment where the previously retrieved items are often used to generate improved query formulations, it is particularly important to introduce distinctions among various classes of retrieved items-f o r example, by first bringing to the users' attention those items that appear most 'relevant' to a given query. The easiest way of introducing distinctions among classes of retrieved items is to use weighted instead of binary index terms to identify queries and documents. ~In such a situation it becomes possible to compute a similarity measure between a given query and each stored record as a function of the 1980 TOC …