Natural Language Generation (NLG) is the task of automatically producing natural language text to describe information present in non-linguistic data. It involves three main subtasks: (i) selecting the relevant portion of input data; (ii) determining the words that will be used to verbalise the selected data; and (iii) mapping these words into natural language text. The latter task is known as Surface Realisation (SR). In my thesis, I study the SR task in the context of input data coming from Knowledge Bases (KB). I present two novel approaches to surface realisation from knowledge bases: a supervised approach and a weakly supervised approach. 
 
In the first, supervised, approach, I present a corpus-based method for inducing a Feature Based Lexicalized Tree Adjoining Grammar (FB-LTAG) from a parallel corpus of text and data. The resulting grammar includes a unification based semantics and can be used by an existing surface realiser to generate sentences from test data. I show that the induced grammar is compact and generalises well over the test data yielding results that are close to those produced by a handcrafted symbolic approach and which outperform an alternative statistical approach. 
 
In the weakly supervised approach, I explore a method for surface realisation from KB data which uses a supplied lexicon but does not require a parallel corpus. Instead, I build a corpus from heterogeneous sources of domain-related text and use it to identify possible lexicalisations of KB symbols (classes and relations) and their verbalisation patterns (frames). Based on the observations made, I build different probabilistic models which are used for selection of appropriate frames and syntax/semantics linking while verbalising KB inputs. I evaluate the output sentences and analyse the issues relevant to learning from non-parallel corpora. 
 
In both these approaches, I use the data derived from an existing biomedical ontology as a reference input. The proposed methods are generic and can be easily adapted for input from other ontologies for which a parallel/non-parallel corpora exists.