relational model. POSTGRES allows fields of a relation to have procedural (executable) objects. POSTQUEL is the query language supporting access to these fields, and in this paper we consider the optimizing process for such queries. The simplest algorithm for optimization assumes that the procedural objects are executed in full, whenever needed. As a refinement to this basic process, we propose an algorithm wherein cost savings are achieved by modifying the procedural queries before executing them. In another direction of refinement, we consider the caching of the materialized results. Two caching strategiescaching in tuples, and separate caching-are considered. The fifth algorithm is flattening, where a POSTQUEL query is modified into an equivalent flat query, and then optimized through a traditional optimizer. We study the relative performances of these algorithms under varying conditions and parameters. Our results show that caching wins when updates do not occur with a high frequency, and that separate caching is, in general, better than caching in tuples. We further show that when the composition of the objects in the procedural field is predictable and parameterizable, flattening is a good option. However, a number of recent proposals which enhance Codd’s [CODD70] model require the modification of the existing algorithms to optimize the new set of queries that were not possible before. In this paper we study the query optimization problem in one such extended relational model, namely POSTGRES. We present a number of algorithms for optimization of queries in such an environment, and do a performance study of each. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we present the extensions in POSTGRES relevant to our study. We also discuss the previous work on optimization of queries on procedural objects. The optimizing paradigm and the details of the algorithms under consideration are then discussed in Section 3. In Section 4 we present the framework in which we compare the various algorithms. Section 5 presents the results of our study. Finally, this paper ends with the conclusions on the viability of each algorithm. 2. POSTGRES PROCEDURES