Constraint satisfaction-a method for representing and solving many AI problems in a very elegant manner-is a well-studied research area of recent years. Freuder observed that some constraint satisfaction problems are fashioned so that certain domain values of constraint variables are interchangeable. The use of such knowledge can increase search efficiency drastically by reducing the problem. In this paper we carry on these considerations and give a formal foundation of interchangeabilities by the notion of domain partitions induced by equivalence relations. We show how these domain partitions can be used in a very accurate manner by the majority of existing constraint propagation algorithms and introduce a novel back-track procedure exploiting such interchangeabi-lities of domain values. Both theoretical analysis and experiments indicate that our proposed approach is an improvement of Freuder's use of neighborhood interchangeability and has very good behavior for certain problem types. Constraint Satisfaction is a well-studied research area of recent years. Using constraint satisfaction methods, many problems-especially in AI-can be represented in a very declarative way by identifying the variables of interest for the problem, laying down the domains for the variables and restricting the variable assignments by constraints. More formally, a constraint network R consists of a finite set of variables and a set of constraints. Associated with each variable v; is a finite, discrete domain. A constraint c on the variables is in its extensional form a subset of the Cartesian product of the domains of the afflicted variables. The expression var(c) denotes the tuple of variables the constraint is defined on, and is the relational information of the constraint c. 1 The assignment of a value to a *This work was supported by Siemens Austria AG under project grant CSS (GR 21/96106/4). 1 Our notation is similar to the one used in [Dechter, 1992]. variable v is denoted by v<—d. A tuple t of assignments of variables _ satisfies a constraint c, if and only if A constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) is the task of finding one or all variable assignments for a constraint network R such that all the constraints of R are satisfied. There are various techniques (like network consistency techniques or backtrack search procedures) for the handling and solving of constraint networks (good descripti-it is well-known that the use of special methods for certain problem types can reduce search effort. In this paper we focus on problems where the domain values are structured …