We study the following fundamental problem in computational molecular biology: Given a set of DNA sequences representing some species and a phylogenetic tree depicting the ancestral relationship among these species, compute an optimal alignment oft he sequences by the means of constructing a minimum-cost evolutionary tree. The problem is an important variant of multiple sequence alignment, and is widely known as tree alignment. A more generalized version of the problem, called generalized tr’ee alignment in this paper, is that we are given the DNA sequences only and still have to construct a minimum-cost evolutionary tree. The paper presents some hardness results as well as approximation algorithms. It is shown that tree alignment is NP-hard and generalized tree alignment is MAX SNP-hard. On the positive side, we design an etiicient approximation algorithm with performance ratio 2 for tree alignment. The algorithm is then extended to a polynomialtime approximation scheme. The construction actually works for Steiner trees in any metric space, and thus implies a polynomial-time approximation scheme for planar Steiner trees under a given topology (with any constant degree). To our knowledge, this is the first polynomial-time approximation scheme in the fields of computational biology and Steiner trees. The contrast *Supported in part by a grant from SERB, McMaster University, and NSERC Operating Grant OGPO046613. Address: Department of Computer Science, MeMaster University, Hamilton, Ont. LSS 4K1, Canada. E-msil: .@@maccs.mcxnaster.ca t supported in p=t by us Dcp~trncnt of Energy Grant DE-FG03-90ER6099. Address: Computer Science Division, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. Email: lawler@cs .berkele y. edu $supported in pmt by NSER.C operating Gr~t C) GPO046613. Address: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McMaster University, Hsrnilton, Onterio L8S 4K1, Canada. B mail: lwsng@maccs .mcmaster .ca Permission to copy without fee all or pari of thk material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association of Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. STOC 945/94 Montreal, Quebee, Canada @ 1994 ACM 0-89791 -663-8/94/0005..$3.50 between the approximabtity of tree alignment and generalized tree alignment shows that a phylogenetic tree can indeed help in multiple alignment. The approximation algorithms may be useful in evolutionary genetics practice as they can provide a good initial alignment for the iterative method in [24].