The sheer scale and complexity of large data networks makes testing them a daunting task. System commissioning, release acceptance, network troubleshooting, performance testing, host conformance testing, and certification are all operational activities that involve testing. Packet switching systems typically provide built-in features to help with hardware level test operations such as modem loopback commands, system failure alarms and system selftests. However, testing system and protocol level functions still required the use of separate tool boxes. Typical data product test tools are designed to test single data lines, not multiline distributed networks (1,2,3). Considering all of the above, the SL-10 test tools group set out to develop network tools (4). Tools have been implemented which are well-integrated into the SL-10 product. The same tools can be used alone, independent of the SL-10 network. This tool set makes the job of network testing more manageable for developer, manufacturer and network operator alike. Terminals and host computers, as well as total networks, can now be tested for conformance and performance automatically, instead of manually. As a result, major productivity improvements and quality gains have been observed since the tools were introduced.
The tool set consists of four tools: an interactive protocol tester (IPT) for checking protocol implementations against specifications; the network load test system (NLTS) which generates simulated traffic and measures the network's performance; the network process monitor (NPM) which examines operating software at the module level; and the network test system (NTS) Driver which is an automatic or interactive test sequencer for coordinating and controlling distributed network testing. Each tool can be operated individually using a standard data terminal. The IPT, NLTS and NPM tools run on SL-10 RAPID* network processors and can be operated remotely via the network or the NTS Driver. Using these tools in combination, a fully integrated and automatic operational test center can be realized, and the need for separate tool boxes can be eliminated.
The design and capabilities of each of these tools are described. This paper describes how these tools meet the special needs of network test operations.