When looked at from a multilingual perspective, grapheme-to-phoneme conversion is a challenging task, fraught with most of the classical NLP "vexed questions": bottleneck problem of data acquisition, pervasiveness of exceptions, diiculty to state range and order of rule application, proper treatment of context-sensitive phenomena and long-distance dependencies , and so on. The hand-crafting of transcription rules by a human expert is onerous and time-consuming, and yet, for some European languages, still stops short of a level of correctness and accuracy acceptable for practical applications. We illustrate here a self-learning multilingual system for analogy-based pronunciation which was tested on Ital-ian, English and French, and whose performances are assessed against the output of both statistically and rule-based transcribers. The general point is made that analogy-based self-learning techniques are no longer just psycholinguistically-plausible models, but competitive tools, combining the advantages of using language-independent, self-learning, tractable algorithms , with the welcome bonus of being more reliable for applications than traditional text-to-speech systems. In Computational Linguistics, generalization by analogy is deened as the inferential process by which an unfamiliar linguistic object O (the target object) is seen as an analogue of more familiar objects (the base objects), so that whatever piece of knowledge is acquired about the latter can be used to deal with the former too (Owen 1990). For the present purposes this means that a written unknown word can be read aloud on the basis of its analogy to known words whose spelling and pronunciation are already familiar to the reader. In g. 1 overleaf, the pronunciation of the (target) Ital-ian name 'bellini' is inferred from the pronunciation of the known 'bellomo' and 'martini', based on their orthographic overlap (shared letters) with the input string. The approach is conceptually close to both instance-based (Dietterich, Hild, & Bakiri 1990; Lu-cassen & Mercer 1984) and case-based (Lehnert 1987; Stannll 1987) learning, although in analogy-based pronunciation more emphasis is laid on the cognitive plausibility of base retrieval and the role of analogiz-ing factors, rather than on automatic data clustering and extraction of statistically-grounded grapheme-to-phoneme regularities. Several proposals have been put forward in psy-cholinguistic circles as to what counts as an analogi-cally relevant factor, that is as a clue to a true analogy between words (Glushko 1979). Here, we will not go into this issue: for the sake of simplicity, orthographic similarity is the only relevant analogizing factor. Moreover , it is assumed that knowing how a …