The digitalized networks are growing fast and possessing huge amount of recorded information, which presents great opportunities in understanding the science of these big networks, and in developing new applications from these networks and for these networks. However, new challenges have to be met-the networks are huge and information is noisy, and these demand new methodologies in analyzing them, and in developing theories and applications for the big networks. This requires collective efforts of researchers with diverse expertise such as theory and algorithms, data mining, machine learning, statistics, complex systems, economics, and sociology to tackle the problems together. The BigNet workshop series aims to provide a forum for presenting the most recent advances in big network analytics and bring together both researchers and practitioners from different communities. The WWW 2017 edition of BigNet focuses on presenting and discussing the state-of-the-art, open problems, challenges and latest models, techniques, and algorithms in the era of big network data. It invites researchers from all over the world who study social and information networks and their computation issues to share their research and insights into questions such as: What are the features of these networks? Why do they exhibit such features? How do networks form and evolve and can we model their formation and evolution? What kinds of hidden information can we extract and how? What kinds of activities and events can we predict from the network and how? How does information flow in the network? How can we do effective computations on such large networks? It serves as a networking event both for connecting researchers from diverse research areas and for connecting researchers from different geographic regions. The call for papers attracted 8 submissions from United States, Europe, and Asia. Each submission was reviewed by two to three reviewers. In light of their relevance, quality, and novelty, we were able to accept 2 papers after a rigorous reviewing process. In addition, this workshop features three keynotes delivered by leading experts in big network analysis, including Prof. Vazirgiannis from Ecole Polytechnique. We hope this workshop program serves as a forum to bring together people from various fields who are studying social and information networks to exchange their latest research results and to sparkle new ideas and directions in the study of networks. We would like to thank all participants of the workshop for making it happen, as well as the WWW 2017 conference organizers …