As technology advances, photonic integrated circuits (PICs) are rapidly scaling in size and complexity, with modern designs integrating thousands of components to meet the demands of artificial intelligence (AI), high-performance computing, and chip-to-chip optical interconnects. However, the analog custom layout nature of photonics, the curvy waveguide structures, and single-layer routing resources impose stringent physical constraints, such as minimum bend radii and waveguide crossing penalties, which make manual layout the de facto standard. This manual process takes weeks to complete and is error-prone, which is fundamentally unscalable for large-scale PIC systems. Existing automation solutions have adopted force-directed placement on small benchmarks with tens of components, with limited routability and scalability. To fill this fundamental gap in the electronic-photonic design automation (EPDA) toolchain, we present Apollo, the first GPU-accelerated, routing-informed placement framework tailored for large-scale PICs. Apollo features an asymmetric bending-aware wirelength function with explicit modeling of waveguide routing congestion and crossings to preserve enough routing spacing for routability maximization. Meanwhile, conditional projection is employed to gradually enforce a variety of user-defined layout constraints, including alignment, spacing, etc. This constrained optimization is accelerated and stabilized by a custom blockwise adaptive Nesterov-accelerated optimizer, ensuring stable and high-quality convergence. To catalyze research in PIC layout automation, we also develop and open-source large-scale PIC benchmarks derived from real-world photonic tensor core designs. Compared to existing methods, Apollo can generate high-quality layouts for large-scale PICs with an average routing success rate of 94.79% across all benchmarks within minutes. By tightly coupling placement with physical-aware routing, Apollo establishes a new paradigm for automated PIC design—bringing intelligent, scalable layout synthesis to the forefront of next-generation EPDA. Our code is open-sourced at link*.