To enable the next generation of computing, advanced and novel circuits and computing architectures need to be developed based on emerging nanoelectronic devices to achieve an order of magnitude improvement in performance. Co-optimizations must be performed across multiple design hierarchies—from device to architecture—to provide high-performance data sensing, storage, and processing while satisfying the requirements for power efficiency, reliability, and programmability, among others. Emerging technologies, when combined with the explosion in the volume of data, have created multiple high-impact design challenges. Hence, novel and significant advances in design methodologies are required to improve design techniques and design efficiency, enhance performance requirements like reliability, and drastically shorten the design period. Security aspects of such designs and design methods need to be explored, as these new challenges expose new security issues. Hence, there is an immediate need to revise the conventional design strategies and further develop new methodologies for implementing the emerging sensing, storage, and computing paradigm. This special issue focuses on novel device technology, circuit, and architecture designs to implement a smart, efficient, reliable, and secure sensing, storage, and computing paradigm. The paper submissions were from various venues, such as the IEEE Computer Society Annual Symposium on VLSI (ISVLSI) 2018 at Hong Kong SAR and open domains. All submissions have been reviewed rigorously following the guidelines of the ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems (JETC) through ScholarOne at https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/jetc. The invited reviewers are expertise in their fields and shall provide high-quality reviews of the papers. The papers selected through a rigorous review process for this special issue are briefly introduced in the rest of this guest editorial. New memory and computationally intensive neural network applications significantly challenge traditional computing hardware that is built upon the Von Neumann architecture. The emerging resistive crossbar-based computing is considered as promising solution for these applications owing to its unique in-memory computing capability. One of the major concerns of such a computing substrate is the parasitic resistances in crossbar, which can largely distort the most important weighted summation operations in neural network computation. In “Mitigate Parasitic Resistance in Resistive Crossbar-Based Convolutional Neural Networks,” Zhang et al. present a new mapping scheme and mitigation algorithm to overcome this issue.