Focusing on railway transport of molten iron in steel enterprise, this paper tries to meet the demand and supply of molten iron between blast furnace and steel mill through TPC (torpedo car) transport. Taking mill railway as a network, based on path selection of molten iron transport and automatic collision avoidance algorithms, the paper puts forward the method of optimizing molten iron dispatch by taking advantage of TPCs to operate flexible time in accordance with the distance between the demand and supply of molten iron and network point, as well as field factors as track switches and signals etc. Ultimately, an intelligentized molten iron dispatching simulation system is formed in the paper to assist staff to optimally allocate locomotive and TPCs. Introduction The workflow of molten iron transport in steel enterprise includes the whole process from blast-furnace casting, to molten iron transporting to steel mill, to TPCs dumping, and finally to empty TPCs carrying back to blast furnace for awaiting molten iron. The procedure is extremely complex, for the dispatch of molten iron transport must timely adapt with the twinkling change of production and operation. However, in most of the steel enterprises, the dispatching method adopted for molten iron dispatch is still artificial scheduling on the whole. Therefore, brainwork intensity of dispatchers is high, and decision-making model and level vary with each individual. At present, in terms of molten iron dispatching, the dispatching method popularizing at home and abroad is mostly to establish co-ordination transportation of supply and marketing[1]. In the light of the model, objective function with the shortest total path is summed up. In some documents, their dispatching methods only solve the single problem of path[2] or TPCs[3]. Others merely take transporting capacity of system into account[4]. All these methods do not consider numerous uncertainties on cost of production, energy consumption and field, such as low regularity of blast furnace’s topping point, capacity dissipating up locomotives in the transportation process, large magnitude of tank cars dueing to a waste of bearing capacity and locomotives collision regardless of railroad section ability. In the mean time, the impacts of throat points and signals should not be neglected. By analyzing the multitude factors that affect the dispatch of molten iron transporting, molten iron transporting system and blast furnace (the transporting process of converter molten iron sector), this paper ties to proceed optimization and simulation to the dispatch of molten iron transporting on the premise of its regulation giving sufficient consideration to flexible time and equipment occupation in the whole process of transportation. International Conference on Information Science and Computer Applications (ISCA 2013) © 2013. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 287 Mathematical description of problems Now consider locomotive crew 1.2.3.....q haul TPCs go through j L , 1 j L  ,... k L , k L , ' 1 k L  ,... j L ( j L is the route for heavy TPCs from blast furnace to steel mill; ' j L is the route for empty TPCs from steel mill to blast furnace); feasible speed set of locomotive is V {0, 1 v , 2 v , 3 v }, j v is the running speed on j L , ' j v is on ' j L , and the speed of locomotive on each route can not exceed 3 v : i T is the running time for heavy TPCs from number i blast furnace to molten iron pretreating, min;   , k q T v denotes the transporting time in optimal program; d i T denotes the added time of torpedo car carted from number i blast furnace in the stage of molten iron pretreating; rz i T denotes the running time for torpedo car of number i blast furnace, min; ih x denotes premium magnitude from supply centre of number i blast furnace to demand centre of number h , h≤r, there are r demand centers at most; i a denotes production volume (net supply) in number i blast furnace in T period, that is, supply of torpedo ladle, i ≤b , there are b supply centers at most; h b denotes consumption (net supply) in number h demand centre in T period, that is, demand of torpedo ladle;  denotes flexible time of torpedo car working in number i blast furnace, min; max T denotes maximum latency; BF i n denotes the tapping frequency of number i blast furnace; BF i Q denotes the iron content at every turn of number i blast furnace; g i n denotes cycle number of torpedo ladle in number i blast furnace; TP C denotes the volume of torpedo ladle; i Y =( i T + d i T )/ rz i T is continuous parameters of TPCs[5]; locom T is annular running time of a set of locomotives on route j L , j 1 L  , ... k L , ' k L , ' k-1 L , ... ' j L . Model is as follows: Objective function: Min  ; Min locom T ; Max i Y =( i T + d i T )/ rz i T ; s.t: The time of heavy TPCs transport and geminate transiting must be less than the total working time of torpedo ladle: ( i T + d i T )< rz i T ( i =1,2...b ); (1) Production capacity restriction: