This paper explores the extent to which the discourse of local autonomy policy in Indonesia derived from the concept of democracy is applicable in the case of Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta (Yogyakarta Special Region). Generally speaking, democracy has been considered a universal concept. However, from a preliminary observation, it was found that a conflict existed in the attempt to applying democracy seen as part of universal values and the desire to preserve the local values of Yogyakarta. Every time when a discourse was put forward to separate the position of the Sultan of Yogyakarta as governor and monarch, the local people tended to reject the election of the governor in Yogyakarta. They wanted the Sultan to be their governor. Using a particulars perspective in the study of governance, this paper argues that democracy can be employed to guide institutional reforms in Indonesia. However, as a concept, it is but a mental construct which is made to draw out meaning from our complex reality. This implies that it should be considered from its usefulness, rather than truthfulness in the case of Yogyakarta. Therefore, the local voice should be carefully considered so that regional autonomy will be less susceptible to failure in its implementation. Keywords— Discourse, Local Autonomy Policy, Democracy, Citizenship. I. DAERAH ISTIMEWA YOGYAKARTA IN THE CONTEXT OF LOCAL AUTONOMY IN INDONESIA Citizens in modern democratic societies are entitled to political rights. They are able to elect and to be elected. They are also expected to participate in political activities. As such, democracy has often come to be taken for granted. Political participation in the form of direct voting is often seen as the most efficient system. While this “Universalist perspective”, is true in general contexts, certain levels of education and political awareness of both the voters and the representatives are likely to undermine the system. One of the rival arguments, namely a “particulars perspective”, is that direct appointment can be equally useful when certain distinctive features, such as historical and cultural aspects, are to be taken into account. This latter system is often seen as undemocratic in the prevailing modern representational politics. However, this paper argues that it can become a useful mechanism to accommodate the public interest or the common good, regardless of the people’s ethnic, religious and racial background as well as political allegiance. In a non-competition process, a leader is likely to claim that he or she can exclusively articulate the public interest. What should be taken into account is the need to establish a hire and fire mechanism for the appointed leader or leaders. Thus, he or she is subject to some forms of public accountability. This “tugof-war” between the “Universalist” view of representational system based on the direct voting system in electing a leader and the “particulars” view of the need to accommodate the non-elected leader has loomed large in the local politics of post-Soeharto where direct voting has been in fashion. This paper addresses the following questions: (1) What does Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta mean in the context of local autonomy in Indonesia?; (2) What are the challenges to local autonomy policy in Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta?, And (3) What are the challenges to and prospects of democracy and citizenship in Indonesia in the future? A. The Special Status of Yogyakarta One of the most debated cases is the attempt of the former Indonesia’s sixth president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono (popularly known as SBY) to revoke the special status that was given to the Sultan of Yogyakarta (Hamengku Buwono X) in Central Java in 2004. Since the independence of Indonesia in 1945, the Sultanate of Yogyakarta has enjoyed a special status of the new Republic of Indonesia owing to the former Sultan Hamengku Buwono IX’s (the father of the current Sultan Hamengku Buwono X) support to the independence of Indonesia and subsequently the revolution period when the Dutch returned to Indonesia in the attempt to reestablish its colonial power. Like his late father (the former Sultan Hamengku Buwono IX), the current Sultan Hamengku Buwono X has enjoyed the privilege of automatically becoming an unelected provincial governor when he began to hold his royal position in 1989. He has thus served as monarch and governor. Based on the reason that it is undemocratic to appoint a governor, SBY proposed that the governor of Yogyakarta should be elected by the people. 1st UPI International Conference on Sociology Education (UPI ICSE 2015) © 2016. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 364 The reaction towards SBY’s maneuver, in the name of democracy, to remove the convention whereby the Sultan inherits the title of governor was overwhelming. In 2008, ten thousands of people went to the streets in Yogyakarta to protest against the government’s draft bill. Pamphlets and stickers were put in every corner of Yogyakarta demanding a referendum on the province's future. The majority of the people of Yogyakarta seemed to disagree with the idea of electing their governor. They saw Yogyakarta had been a special place long before and after the Republic of Indonesia was created. More importantly, Sultan Hamengku Buwono X sided with reformers who ousted the dictator Soeharto in 1998. Some political observers saw that SBY might have had some political interest because the Sultan had traditionally allied himself with a rival political party, Golongan Karya (Golkar). Moreover, with his popular and charismatic leadership, the Sultan might become a rival in national politics. If his maneuver was successful, SBY and his Democratic Party was likely to reap the benefit. B. The Local Autonomy Law In Indonesia, public political participation in the general election at either national or local level is governed by law. For election of local leaders, Article 18 Clause [1] of the amended 1945 Constitution mentions that “Governor, regent and mayor as local government head in the province, regency, and municipal, respectively, are elected democratically.” This Article is in line with Articles 24 clause [2] and 56 of Law No. 32/2004 that stipulates that a local leader is elected by the populace through a local leader election. The new law concerning the local leader election, Law No. 23 of 2014, also stipulates that local leader is elected through a local leader election. Since the introduction of the local autonomy policy in Indonesia, there have been so many controversies surrounding it. Two of the most central questions, which have been echoed above, need to be posed in here. First, to what extent does it bring advantages and disadvantages to the political decentralization and administrative decentralization in Indonesia? Secondly, how does it reflect the political decentralization and administrative decentralization concepts? As prompted above, Yogyakarta was given a special administrative status in the Republic of Indonesia and was called Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta (the Special Region of Yogyakarta) influenced by two factors: history and culture. It is a special acknowledgment based on the right of the native region as the continuation of the Mataram Kingdom and a tribute to the contribution of its people during the revolutionary period [3] where the Sultan has served as the monarch as well as the governor. Insofar as issues of special autonomy and political decentralization are concerned, we have not found any similar practices around the world. The issues which are often discussed by scholars in the contemporary studies of public administration, governance and development can range from “between decentralization and public officials’ accountability” in Africa [4], “public participation” in Europe [5] to “the relationship between decentralization and responsiveness of public investment to local needs” in Latin America [2]. Yet, we could not find a relatively similar issue that of Yogyakarta in those countries. The same thing can also be applied to Japan. As Hisonari Kato [6] suggests that despite its rich traditional culture, modern Japan of post-Secondary World War has not seen any similar experience as that of Yogyakarta in which the Sultan who has significantly secular and sacred roles. Two further examples can also be drawn, namely from the sultanates in Indonesia of post-Soeharto period and the sultanates in Malaysia. On one hand, in the post-Soeharto era, Indonesia has seen a revival of the sultanates. [7] points out that there are at least twenty-four sultanates in Kalimantan, Java, Sumatera, and Maluku. During the periods of Sukarno (1945-1966) and Soeharto (19661998), sultanates were not in fashion as they were often seen as carrying feudalistic values which would clash in some ways with modern Indonesia. [7] rightly points out that Regional autonomy has created arenas for a local political community that hardly existed during the centralizing New Order. Autonomy has brought not merely new administrative arrangements, but a new kind of political struggle requiring new (or newly reinvented) symbols. The autonomy laws focus on the districts (Kabupaten), not on the provinces. The boundaries of these districts often reflect the numerous small kingdoms that were incorporated into the Netherlands Indies by Dutch colonists. However, the sultans lack the real power. Some have inherited the problems of the past. For example, the Sultan of Pontianak, Syarif Hamid II Alqadrie, was sentenced to ten years in 1953 for siding with the Dutch in the revolution in 1945. Since then, his descendants have never enjoyed the power he had in the colonial time. Despite some other maintain their symbolic popularity, the sultans in Indonesia lack the support from the people. So far they have not gained a real political position, such as being a chief of a district or province. On the other hand, the constitutional monarchy system in Malaysia is based on the We