Over the past decade, the Predictive Model Mark-up Language (PMML) has emerged as the de facto standard for predictive model specification that is vendor neutral, application agnostic and a true enabler for cross-platform interoperability. As PMML has matured, a broader variety of applications and deployment mechanisms are being used. These create opportunities for future growth but they also create challenges for the standard to remain flexible enough to meet the demands of new users and new solutions. Related fields such as data grids, web services, and the semantic web have also developed standards-based infrastructures and services relevant to KDD. These standards and standards-based services and platforms have the potential to change the way data mining is being used. 
 
Based on the structure of similar standards workshops that were part of past KDD conferences, this workshop aims to bring together practitioners from industry and academia to discuss various applications and foster a dialog about data mining models, model interoperability, data transformation and post-processing workflows and related topics. In addition, the workshop will include talks on future requirements and the future direction for data mining services and platforms. As part of the KDD-2011 conference, we hope to expose the broader community to this area, and conversely, to collect requirements for new versions of the PMML standard. Included in this year's workshop are eight papers that cover a variety of topics related to PMML, not only how it is used, but also how it can be extended while remaining the lingua franca for predictive models. The workshop will also include a panel discussion on PMML where participants address questions and debate future directions for the standard. 
 
As predictive analytics and data mining continue to gain momentum in industry and business applications, open standards like PMML provide an essential foundation to share predictive models across vendors and to disseminate model-related information within organizations. It is only through the contributions of many people from industry and academia that PMML standard continues to grow in adoption and evolve in capability. The workshop organizers would like to thank all those who give generously of their skills and expertise in order to make PMML the standard that it is today.