Welcome to the 2010 ACM SIGCOMM Conference in New Delhi, India! 
 
We are excited to introduce the technical program for the first-ever ACM SIGCOMM conference held in India. This year's program continues SIGCOMM's tradition of presenting outstanding work that breaks new theoretical ground and provides practical insight into modern communication networks. The program committee accepted 33 excellent papers selected from 276 reviewed submissions. The topics range across all aspects of network infrastructure, from the enterprise and data center to wireless, and address problems and opportunities across the network stack from the physical layer to global social networks. Similarly, the papers came from a rich mix of authors from both academia and industry all over the world. Authors from over 30 countries submitted papers, and the final program includes authors from 8 countries and over 40 organizations. 
 
We had the distinct pleasure of working with an outstanding technical program committee of 48 members spanning the globe and drawn from both industry and academia. The composition of the TPC was crafted with care, following the guidelines developed over the years with ACM SIGCOMM. Every member of the committee had an equal role throughout, reviewing the same number of papers and participating in the program committee meeting. We are very grateful for their tremendous dedication and hard work. Participating in the SIGCOMM TPC is one of the most intense reviewing activities, as all of the papers are reviewed only by the TPC members. 
 
As with other conferences receiving a large number of submissions, the TPC reviewed the submitted papers in two rounds followed by a TPC meeting. Each round resulted in about half of the papers being considered for the next step. In the first round, every paper received at least three reviews. A discussion phase then followed the first round. Based on these first round reviews and subsequent discussions, we assigned at least two additional reviews to papers in a second round. When necessary, we also relied upon the expertise of a small, select group of expert external reviewers in addition to the reviews from the TPC members. In total, the 276 submitted papers received 1,120 reviews. 
 
A second discussion phase followed. Based upon the collective reviews and final online discussions, the program committee then met on May 3-4, 2010 for a lively 1.5-day discussion (with all TPC members in attendance) that resulted in the final conference program. The TPC subsequently shepherded all accepted papers, and the authors produced the polished final papers that constitute these proceedings. 
 
It is our distinct honor and pleasure to present the best paper for ACM SIGCOMM 2010, "Efficient Error Estimating Coding: Feasibility and Applications," by Binbin Chen, Ziling Zhou, Yuda Zhao and Haifeng Yu from the National University of Singapore. Volunteers from the TPC selected the best paper from a set of six papers nominated based on the merits of their reviews. All TPC members that were not conflicted with the nominated papers were invited to participate in the best paper award selection committee. We sincerely thank Bruce Davie for leading this important process, and are grateful to the TPC members who volunteered for this final task.