It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 1st ACM International Workshop on Privacy and Anonymity for Very Large Datasets -- PAVLAD'09. This first edition of this workshop is intended to start a forum for presentation of research results and experience reports on leading edge issues of privacy for very large data volumes, including new algorithms and techniques, data structures, applications, and theory. The mission of the workshop is to gather researchers in the areas of data privacy and anonymization together with researchers in the area of high performance and very large data volumes management and identify new directions for future research and development. We seek to collect the most recent advances in data privacy and anonymization (i.e. anonymization techniques, statistics disclosure techniques, privacy in social networks, privacy in graphs, etc) and those in High Performance and Data Management (algorithms and structures for efficient data management, parallelism exploitation, distributed systems, etc). PAVLAD gives researchers and practitioners a unique opportunity to share their perspectives with others interested in the various aspects of performance aspects related to privacy issues. 
 
The call for papers attracted 14 submissions from 9 different countries in Asia, Europe and the United States. The program committee accepted 8 papers that cover a variety of topics, including privacy and other aspects in network attack and intrusion detection systems, efficient record linkage techniques for privacy preserving support processes, differential privacy for anonymous log access, efficient supervised learning techniques for text anonymization, efficient privacy-preserving algorithms for discovering closed frequent itemsets in distributed environments and for data mining on incremental datasets. In addition, the program includes a keynote speech by Vicenc Torra on error/inconsistency-free microaggregation methods for data anonymization. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for security researchers and developers.