Large code models (LCMs), pre-trained on vast code corpora, have demonstrated remarkable performance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
across a wide array of code-related tasks. Supervised fine-tuning (SFT) plays a vital role in aligning these models
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with specific requirements and enhancing their performance in particular domains. However, synthesizing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
high-quality SFT datasets poses a significant challenge due to the uneven quality of datasets and the scarcity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of domain-specific datasets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inspired by APIs as high-level abstractions of code that encapsulate rich semantic information in a concise
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
structure, we propose DataScope, an API-guided dataset synthesis framework designed to enhance the SFT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
process for LCMs in both general and domain-specific scenarios. DataScope comprises two main components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dslt and Dgen. On the one hand, Dslt employs API coverage as a core metric, enabling efficient dataset
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
synthesis in general scenarios by selecting subsets of existing (uneven-quality) datasets with higher API
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
coverage. On the other hand, Dgen recasts domain dataset synthesis as a process of using API-specified
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
high-level functionality and deliberately constituted code skeletons to synthesize concrete code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extensive experiments demonstrate DataScope’s effectiveness, with models fine-tuned on its synthesized
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
datasets outperforming those tuned on unoptimized datasets five times larger. Furthermore, a series of analyses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on model internals, relevant hyperparameters, and case studies provide additional evidence for the efficacy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of our proposed methods. These findings underscore the significance of dataset quality in SFT and advance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the field of LCMs by providing an efficient, cost-effective framework for constructing high-quality datasets,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which in turn lead to more powerful and tailored LCMs for both general and domain-specific scenarios.