Smartphones are linked with individuals and are valuable and yet easily available sources for characterizing users' behavior and activities. User's location is among the characteristics of each individual that can be utilized in the provision of location-based services (LBs) in numerous scenarios such as remote health-care and interactive museums. Mobile phone tracking and positioning techniques approximate the position of a mobile phone and thereby its user, by disclosing the actual coordinate of a mobile phone. Considering the advances in positioning techniques, indoor positioning is still a challenging issue, because the coverage of satellite signals is limited in indoor environments. One of the promising solutions for indoor positioning is fingerprinting in which the signals of some known transmitters are measured in several reference points (RPs). This measured data, which is called dataset is stored and used to train a mathematical model that relates the received signal from the transmitters (model input) and the location of that user (the output of the model). Considering all the improvements in indoor positioning, there is still a gap between practical solutions and the optimal solution that provides near theoretical accuracy for positioning. This accuracy directly impacts the level of usability and reliability in corresponding LBSs. In this paper, we develop a smartphone app with the ability to be trained and detect users' location, accurately. We use Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) as a probabilistic method to find the parameters of a non-linear and non-convex indoor positioning model. We collect a dataset of received signals' strength (RSS) in several RPs by using a software which is prepared and installed on an Android smartphone. We also find the accurate 2σ confidence interval in the presented GPR method and evaluate the performance of the proposed method by measured data in a realistic scenario. The measurements confirm that our proposed method outperforms some conventional methods including KNN, SVR and PCA-SVR in terms of accuracy.