Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) perform billions of operations for classifying a single input. To reduce these computations, this paper offers a solution that leverages a combination of runtime information and the algorithmic structure of CNNs. Specifically, in numerous modern CNNs, the outputs of compute-heavy convolution operations are fed to activation units that output zero if their input is negative. By exploiting this unique algorithmic property, we propose a predictive early activation technique, dubbed SnaPEA. This technique cuts the computation of convolution operations short if it determines that the output will be negative. SnaPEA can operate in two distinct modes, exact and predictive. In the exact mode, with no loss in classification accuracy, SnaPEA statically re-orders the weights based on their signs and periodically performs a single-bit sign check on the partial sum. Once the partial sum drops below zero, the rest of computations can simply be ignored, since the output value will be zero in any case. In the predictive mode, which trades the classification accuracy for larger savings, SnaPEA speculatively cuts the computation short even earlier than the exact mode. To control the accuracy, we develop a multi-variable optimization algorithm that thresholds the degree of speculation. As such, the proposed algorithm exposes a knob to gracefully navigate the trade-offs between the classification accuracy and computation reduction. Compared to a state-of-the-art CNN accelerator, SnaPEA in the exact mode, yields, on average, 28% speedup and 16% energy reduction in various modern CNNs without affecting their classification accuracy. With 3% loss in classification accuracy, on average, 67.8% of the convolutional layers can operate in the predictive mode. The average speedup and energy saving of these layers are 2.02x and 1.89x, respectively. The benefits grow to a maximum of 3.59x speedup and 3.14x energy reduction. Compared to static pruning approaches, which are complimentary to the dynamic approach of SnaPEA, our proposed technique offers up to 63% speedup and 49% energy reduction across the convolution layers with no loss in classification accuracy.