In this article, we study the dynamic traffic assignment problem using the general path-delay-operator form as proposed by Friesz et al. [1989] and augment this model with side-constraints. Our contribution consists of four types of results: (1) We first show that the claim of existence of side-constrained dynamic equilibria defined as solutions to a VI ([Zhong et al. 2011, Prop. 3.1., pp. 1040]) is wrong by providing a counter-example to this claim. The consequences of the counter-example are somewhat severe since not only does the assumed existence result break down but, perhaps more seriously, the counterexample reveals that the proposed VI is in fact not a suitable definition of a side-constrained dynamic equilibrium. (2) We introduce - in line with prior works for the static flow model - a behavioral equilibrium concept via formally introducing a noncooperative game modeling the space of feasible deviations of users given a dynamic flow. The precise way a feasible deviation is defined leads to a whole set of equilibrium concepts and we propose several of them including dynamic variants of the Larsson-Patriksson and Marcotte-Nguyen-Schoeb equilibria whose properties were originally discussed by the respective authors for static equilibrium flows. Given a behavioral equilibrium concept for side-constrained dynamic equilibrium flows, obvious questions related to their characterization, existence and computability arise. (3) Under mild assumptions on the structure of the side-constraints, we give necessary and sufficient conditions under which an equilibrium can be described as a solution to an associated (quasi) variational inequality. (4) We then turn to existence of dynamic equilibria for non-convex volume constraints as studied by Zhong et al. [2011]. Note that non-convexity means that standard existence tools from the infinite dimensional VI theory cannot be used anymore. We show existence of dynamic Larsson-Patriksson and Marcotte-Nguyen-Schoeb equilibria for this setting by using an augmented Lagrangian function approach for violated edge-load constraints invoking in a black-box fashion solutions to the unconstrained equilibrium problem augmented with penalities.