
 While additive manufacturing offers unprecedented design freedom to engineers, challenges associated with part accuracy and quality prevent additive manufacturing from becoming as widespread as traditional manufacturing techniques. Statistical quality control is typically applied to mass-produced parts in which large numbers of identical (or similar) parts are fabricated in a production line context, but for customized, additively manufactured parts, part qualification must be performed with a much more limited number of samples — ideally, just one customized part — or the benefit of customized production is lost to the expense of repeated production and refinement. Building upon previous work that established a statistical database of geometric design allowables for a laser sintering additive manufacturing process via extensive geometric metrology, this research establishes transfer learning techniques for transferring those databases to new materials, machines, or parts. The goal of this research is to utilize transfer learning to maximize the accuracy of design allowables for new materials, machines, or parts, while limiting the required number of expensive new metrology studies. Transfer learning is implemented via a two-stage Gaussian process regression method. In the first stage, a trend model is built using pre-existing metrology data to capture general geometric characteristics of the process. In the second stage, a deviation model is trained on the difference between the pre-existing data and a small amount of data gathered from the new material/machine/process. The trend and deviation models are then aggregated to create a surrogate model referred to as the transfer learning model. The proposed method is evaluated using a multi-material polymer selective laser sintering metrology dataset. The performance of the transfer learning model is compared to that of simpler alternative models. Results show that transfer learning models are generally more accurate in predicting geometric dimensions and less sensitive to changes in training data points.