We would like to welcome you all to MobiCom 2005 and to beautiful Cologne. After Budapest in 1997 and Rome in 2001, this year MobiCom returns to Europe for the third time and takes place in Germany for the first time. MobiCom is the premier conference in mobile computing and networking, and it has been our honor to serve as General Chairs. The technical program of this year's MobiCom conference consists of tutorials from top experts, keynote speeches from luminaries in the field, an outstanding program of technical papers, posters and demonstrations, and an exceptional set of workshops. The keynote speeches will be given by Ralf Guido Herrtwich and Jeff Jaffe. The workshops are DIALM/POMC, DIN, VANET, WiSe, and WMASH. In addition, this is the first year that MobiCom will host the ACM Student Research Competition.Many people have helped making this conference a success. We would like to thank the organizing committee for their excellent service. In particular we would like to thank Elizabeth Belding-Royer and Songwu Lu, the TPC Chairs, Suman Banarjee and Martina Zitterbart, the Workshop Chairs, Luca Salgarelli, the Tutorial Chair, Guohong Cao, the Financial Chair, Mario Gerla and Jean-Pierre Hubaux, the Panel Chairs, Volker Gruhn and Venkat Padmanabhan, the Industrial Liaisons Chairs, Dirk Westhoff, the Research Demo Chair, Haiyun Luo, the Student Poster Chair, and Christian Bettstetter and Wendi Heinzelman, the Publicity Chairs. Dirk and Haiyun also led the effort on the Student Research Competition. We would especially like to thank Oliver Waldhorst for all his help with local arrangements and Lars Littig for his dedication in managing the conference web site. Furthermore, we would like to thank the SIGMOBILE officers, Dave Johnson and Victor Bahl for their continuous support and advice in the organization of the conference. We are also grateful to the MobiCom Steering Committee, chaired by Imrich Chlamtac, that was helpful in advising on early choices in planning the conference. Last but not least, we appreciate the support of the ACM staff: Erin Dolan, Maritza Nichols, and Adrienne Griscti.We gratefully acknowledge the support of our corporate sponsors Deutsche Telekom, Microsoft Research, NTT DoCoMo, Sprint, adesso, Nokia, and SAP. In a time of rising expenses they make it possible to run an outstanding conference that is affordable.We acknowledge the invaluable sponsorship of ACM SIGMOBILE. This year we were also fortunate to have the conference in cooperation with the German societies, Gesellschaft fur Informatik (GI) and informationstechnische Gesellschaft (ITG) within the Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik (VDE).