As attitude and motion sensing components, inertial sensors are widely used in various portable devices, covering consumer electronics, sports health, aerospace, etc. But the severe intrinsic errors of inertial sensors heavily restrain their function implementation, especially the advanced functionality, including motion trajectory recovery and motion semantic recognition, which attracts considerable attention. As a mainstream signal processing method, wavelet is hailed as the mathematical microscope of signal due to the plentiful and diverse wavelet basis functions. However, complicated noise types and application scenarios of inertial sensors make selecting wavelet basis perplexing. To this end, we propose a wavelet dynamic selection network (WDSNet), which intelligently selects the appropriate wavelet basis for variable inertial signals. In addition, existing deep learning architectures excel at extracting features from input data but neglect to learn the characteristics of target categories, which is essential to enhance the category awareness capability, thereby improving the selection of wavelet basis. Therefore, we propose a category representation mechanism (CRM), which enables the network to extract and represent category features without increasing trainable parameters. Furthermore, CRM transforms the common fully connected network into category representations, which provide closer supervision to the feature extractor than the far and trivial one-hot classification labels. We call this process of imposing interpretability on a network and using it to supervise the feature extractor the feature supervision mechanism, and its effectiveness is demonstrated experimentally and theoretically in this paper. The enhanced inertial signal can perform impracticable tasks with regard to the original signal, such as trajectory reconstruction. Both quantitative and visual results show that WDSNet outperforms the existing methods. Remarkably, WDSNet, as a weakly-supervised method, achieves the state-of-the-art performance of all the compared fully-supervised methods.