Reliable effort estimation is of paramount importance to software planning and management, especially in industry that requires effective and on-time delivery. Although various estimation approaches have been proposed (e.g., planning poker and analogy), they may be manual and/or subjective, which are difficult to apply to other projects. In recent years, deep learning approaches for effort estimation that rely on learning expert features or semantic features respectively have been extensively studied and have been found to be promising. Semantic features and expert features de-scribe software tasks from different perspectives, however, in the literature, the best combination of these two features has not been explored to enhance effort estimation. Additionally, there are a few studies that discuss which expert features are useful for estimating effort in the industry. To this end, we investigate the potential 13 expert features that can be used to estimate effort by interviewing 26 enterprise employees. Based on that, we propose a novel model, called Fine-SE, that leverages semantic features and expert features for effort estimation. To validate our model, a series of evaluations are conducted on more than 30,000 software tasks from 17 industrial projects of a global ICT enterprise and four open-source software (OSS) projects. The evaluation results indicate that Fine-SE provides higher performance than the baselines on evaluation measures (i.e., mean absolute error, mean magnitude of relative error, and performance indicator), particularly in industrial projects with large amounts of software tasks, which implies a significant improvement in effort estimation. In comparison with expert estimation, Fine-SE improves the performance of evaluation measures by 32.0%-45.2% in within-project estimation. In comparison with the state-of-the-art models, Deep-SE and GPT2SP, it also achieves an improvement of 8.9%-91.4% in industrial projects. The experimental results reveal the value of integrating expert features with semantic features in effort estimation.