The problem of fitting a straight line to a finite collection of points in the plane is an important problem in statistical estimation. Recently there has been a great deal of interests is robust estimators, because of their lack of sensitivity to outlying data points. The basic measure of the robustness of an estimator is its breakdown point, intuitively, the fraction (up to 50% percent) of outlying data points that can corrupt the estimator. One problem with robust estimators is that achieving high breakdown points (near 50%) has proved to be computationally demanding. In this paper we present the best known theoretical algorithm and the first practical subquadratic algorithm for computing a 50% breakdown point estimator: the Siegel, or repeated median, estimator. We first present an O(nlogn) randomized expected time algorithm, where n is the number of given points. This algorithm relies, however, on sophisticated data structures. We also present a very simple O(n log’ n) randomized algorithm for this problem, which uses no complex data structures. We provide empirical evidence that, for many realistic input distributions, the running time of this second algorithm is actually O(nlog n) expected time. from the phenomenon that a small number of outlying points can perturb the line of fit by an arbitrarily large amount. For this reason, there has been increased interest in a class of estimators, called robust estimators [12], [lo], [19], that d o not suffer from this deficiency. Define the breakdown point of an estimator to be the fraction of outlying data points (up to 50%) that may cause the estimator to take on an arbitrarily large aberrant value. (See Donoho and Huber [5] and Rousseeuw and Leroy [19] for exact definitions.) The breakdown point of an estimator is a measure of its robustness. For example, the (asymptotic) breakdown point of least squares is zero because even a single outlying data point can have an arbitrarily large effect on the estimator. Examples of robust estimators include the following.