A multi-message multi-recipient PKE (mmPKE) encrypts a batch of messages, in one go, to a corresponding set of independently chosen receiver public keys. The resulting ''multi-recipient ciphertext'' can be then be reduced (by any 3rd party) to a shorter, receiver specific, ''invidual ciphertext.'' Finally, to recover the i-th message in the batch from their indvidual ciphertext the i-th receiver only needs their own decryption key. A special case of mmPKE is multi-recipient PKE (mPKE) where all receivers are sent the same message. By treating (m)mPKE and their KEM counterparts as a stand-alone primitives we allow for more efficient constructions than trivially composing individual PKE/KEM instances. This is especially valuable in the post-quantum setting, where PKE/KEM ciphertexts and public keys tend to be far larger than their classic counterparts. In this work we describe a collection of new results around mKEMs and (m)mPKEs. We provide both classic and post-quantum proofs for all results. Our results are geared towards practical constructions and applications (for example in the domain of PQ-secure group messaging). Concretely, our results include a new non-adaptive to adaptive compiler for CPA-secure mKEMs resulting in public keys roughly half the size of the previous state-of-the-art [Hashimoto et al., CCS'21]. We also prove their FO transform for mKEMs to be secure in the presence of adaptive corruptions in the quantum random oracle model. Further, we provide the first mKEM combiner. Finally, we give two mmPKE constructions. The first is an arbitrary message-length black-box construction from an mKEM (e.g. one produced by combining a PQ with a classic mKEM). The second is optimized for short messages (which is suited for several recent mmPKE applications) and achieves hybrid PQ/classic security more directly. When encrypting n short messages at 256-bits of security the mmPKE ciphertext are 144n bytes shorter than the generic construction. Finally, we provide an optimized implementation of the (CCA secure) mKEM construction based on the NIST PQC winner Kyber and report benchmarks showing a significant speedup for encapsulation and up to 79% savings in ciphertext size compared to a naive solution.