Welcome to the SPLASH 2011 Experience Reports track. We think you'll be glad you came.
 Experience reports are all about how we create practical software systems that solve real-world problems. Each paper presented here is based on production software in use by real customers. These are systems that have had to face up to the brutal reality of everyday use. My grandfather used to tell me, "Deep learning happens in deep trenches. You dug yourself in, you gotta dig yourself out." These papers are your chance to learn how to avoid the trenches in the first place. Listen to our stories and, hopefully, adapt them to your own environments.
 This year we have three sessions that we believe offer something for everybody. The presentations in "Being a Team" discuss how the authors were able to effectively find ways to be more productive in working with various groups. Teams have large scope these days. Many are geographically dispersed over large areas. Some are highly focused, consisting of a small group of tight-knit developers. And all have to work within larger teams, composed of members of the organization not traditionally considered part of a development team.
 "Making Frameworks" is the coding session. These authors provide you with tips you can take home and apply directly to what you build. Engineering is at best a tricky process, a mixture of both art and science. As practicing developers we know this to be true but don't always get to exercise all aspects of our craft. Come and learn some new insights.
 Finally, "Getting Down to the Bone". These papers present glimpses into systems you will be using in the future. Practical for those that need them now. Informative for us all. No rarified atmosphere of pure code for these guys!
 And please remember that a large part of Experience is Participation. These authors have submitted their papers because of a desire to share. Actively participate in the Q&A. Hang around afterwards for more penetrating discussion. Then come back next year with your own deep trench learning and tell us how you dug yourself out!