Building objects are produced by people who perform the necessary tasks using equipment. On the basis of preconditions, the process designer can have a particular task performed by a specific combination of a worker and equipment. The worker performs a number of tasks and the equipment does the rest. Nowadays, newer, more suitable technologies are becoming available. In order to use these technologies successfully, it is essential to have a good understanding of the work processes of an object that is to be built. The terms mechanising, robotising and automating are defined in order to be able to describe the physical, cognitive and organising tasks in relation to the possible use of human-machine technologies. It sometimes makes more sense to redesign the building products to achieve a more effective and efficient building process using workers and additional tools or machines. Mechanising, robotising and automating construction processes is necessary in order to reduce production times and costs, improve working conditions, avoid dangerous work, allow work to be performed that people cannot do and increase performance. For the construction industry, more and more human-machine technologies are becoming available, but their use does not automatically lead to more effective and efficient construction processes. Building expertise is the domain of the professional builder and not of the process engineers who look to apply the technologies in the construction industry. The implicit know-how of the builders and construction process designers regarding the execution of construction processes has to be made explicit. The builder’s implicit know-how comprises knowing how to choose the sequence of the building elements, how to join the elements, where the elements fit in the construction as a whole and how they have to be positioned. This chapter contains a systematic definition of the terms mechanising, robotising and automating and explains an analysis method with which a worker-equipment system that produces better performance can be designed.