A critical role of computing and information technologies is and will increasingly be the provision of personal health and safety. As computing becomes ever more deeply integrated into daily life computer security will necessarily takes on increasingly personal domains beyond that of traditional corporate and military security. Examples of emerging domains include home monitoring for elders, monitoring homes for break-ins, active medical devices embedded in the body, health monitoring, sharing of protected genetic data, and ubiquitous health monitoring. Research on computer security as personal safety requires blending of social context, qualitative understandings, and human behavior with technical security aspects. As illustrated so dramatically in the main conference, such fundamental physical issues as the transmission of wireless signals through flesh can be a source of defense for in-body computing. This intersection of technology, data that are detailed to the point of intimacy, and a user population that is not interested in managing the technical minutia of securing systems requires a holistic approach to computer security. 
 
The first Security and Privacy in Medical and Home-Care Systems (SPIMACS) answers the challenges of this emerging reality with a call for more diverse, interdisciplinary and nuanced design and evaluation of security and privacy technologies. SPIMACS includes a wide range of methods, topics and even more diverse presentations. Submissions included multimedia presentations on the use of video in communicating privacy risks, architectural proposals, and prototype demonstrations. The keynote speaker, Latanya Sweeney, is both the Director of the Data Privacy Laboratory at Carnegie Mellon University and a public servant in her role as a member of the Federal Health IT Policy Committee. The importance and interactions of her two roles, as policy analyst and laboratory scientist, illustrate some of the challenges in researching these emerging arenas. 
 
The presentations in this inaugural workshop range from the traditional technological to the inherently qualitatively personal. In a more traditional approach to securing health information Carl Gunter offers an approach to software engineering that embeds the safety, usability and life-critical issues associated with those people in assisted living environments. He then joins researchers to examine an new approach to access control optimized for medical records. Kevin Fu, with Andres Molina and Mastooreh Salajegheh provide a distinctive approach to health information by building upon the observation that anonymity loves company. Avi Rubin focuses on the mobile domain and the need to secure records on devices with limited processing capacity, and power in work with Ryan W. Gardner, Sujata Garera, Matthew W. Pagano and Matthew Green. 
 
Sasikanth Avancha, Amit Baxi and David Kotz offer a new framework for the evaluation of privacy when the data may be sensitive in terms of both location and activity, with a particular focus on mobile health and home-care systems. Unfortunately for the policy framework which current exists, Ajit Appari, Eric Johnson and Denise Anthony examine the quality and breadth of HIPAA diffusion. Their findings address the limitations of policy to solve the problems of security and privacy created by technological innovation. 
 
Short works on innovative methodologies include organization theory, in-situ examinations of the efficacy of computer security in medical environments, and a view from the video lens focused on the home. Fabio Massacci, Viet Hung Nguyen and Ayda Saidane bring organizational perspectives to issues of assisted living, where privacy is sometimes an afterthought. Scout Sinclair illustrates that even the best-laid abstract security technologies may be subverted in practice when they are experienced as technologies of inconvenience. Finally, Kelly Caine takes the organizational concerns of Massacci to the personal by asking the subjects of video and privacy loss about their own risk calculus, when faced with digital privacy and physical safety risks. 
 
The workshop closes with those on the front lines of security technologies: vendors and consultants trying to bring workable technology to the market now. The panel presents representatives from Google, Microsoft and Mitre, with Kevin Fu moderating and Patrick Traynor providing a perspective from the years of Smart Home work at Georgia Institute of Technology.