It is our great pleasure to welcome you to Seattle, Washington for SIGCOMM 2008, the flagship conference of the ACM SIG on Data Communications! 
 
With great enthusiasm and pride we have put together for you a rich and varied technical program that includes thirty six full-length papers that will be presented over three days; a keynote talk by the SIGCOMM Award winner, Don Towsley; the announcement of the SIGCOMM Test-of-Time Award; five one-day workshops that range from emerging communities (MobiArch, NetEcon, NSDR) to new forums on programmable routers and online social networks (PRESTO, WOSN); tutorials on the NetFPGA platform and spectral algorithms, and a unique session with 33 posters and 20 demonstrations that highlight promising early-stage research. It's a packed program, full of intellectually stimulating forums, each of which has the potential of leading to new important discoveries and breakthroughs. 
 
We are very excited about introducing several new "firsts" at SIGCOMM 2008. We have expanded the poster session to include demonstrations. We have worked with the SIG to launch a SIGCOMM Best Paper award. We have modified the traditional Student Dinner to a Dinner with Students event, opening it up to anyone who desires to join the students for an informal dinner. We are videotaping all presentations professionally and will make them available to the community, and we are providing a "go green" registration option to allow attendees to opt out of printed proceedings and get a CDROM that contains all the conference proceedings. SIGCOMM 2008 is located in the heart of Seattle, a vibrant, bustling urban city set in the midst of beautiful natural surroundings. We encourage you to take-in the sights and sounds of our beautiful region and to get you started we invite you to attend our Welcome Reception at the Olympic Sculpture Park, which provides a spectacular view of Puget Sound and the Olympic mountains. Our banquet will be held aboard a spacious modern cruise ship giving you a view of Seattle from the water and a closer view of the Sound.