The amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive muscular paralysis reflecting degeneration of motor neurons in the primary motor cortex, corticospinal tracts, brainstem and spinal cord. It’ incidence (average 1.89 per 100,000/year) and prevalence (average 5.2 per100,000) are relatively uniform in Western countries. At the moment there is no treatment for this disease and the only management of ALS is palliative, for this reason it is required a supportive and multidisciplinary approach [1]. In ALS, paralysis is progressive and leads to death due to respiratory failure within 2–3 years. During the latter stage of the disease, patients suffer of a locked-in condition, where their brain maintains all the cognitive functions operating, in a paralyzed body [2]. Brain Computer Interface allows people in locked-in states to communicate with the external world and to control the environment using brain waves, rather than muscles [3]. Among the paradigm presented in literature, we used the P300 oddball paradigm for our architecture. Accordingly to this paradigm, it is possible to elicit a particular wave, named P300 (P indicates a positive deflection, 300 represents the latency in milliseconds on stimulus onset) by showing an unattended stimulus during a sequence of expected stimuli [4]. Assistive robotics is a new field of Human Robotic Interaction that is a new subfield of robotics that bridges HRI, rehabilitation robotics, social robotics, and service robotics [5]. These robots can serve a variety of therapeutically relevant functions, including providing feedback [6], accomplishing tasks [7,8], extending user presence [9] and help in the management of the patient [10]. Telenoid Robot is a small-size Japanese robot developed from the idea of transferring human’s “presence”. Telenoid was developed to appear and behave as a minimal design of human features. Its name derived from “Tele” as tele operation and “noides” as twin, to reassemble, even in the name, how the robot is an extension of the user himself [11]. The architecture has been designed to provide new communication channel for people affected by ALS. The use of the telenoid robot as communication mediator enables the operator the feeling of sharing a space with the user.