This work proposes Hyperdimensional Computing (HDC) as a design paradigm [13] to facilitate search and recommendation activities for disabled users employing symbolic augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems. Such a context necessitates flexibility and composability in item and query representations as a consequence of vocabularies being tailored to an individual user. HDC is suggested to meet these needs in an efficient manner. However, construction and empirical evaluation are left to additional research. Project development for symbolic AAC supports a small but highly diverse user base. This creates a ''low resource environment'' from both an economic and technical perspective. The heterogeneity of user communication abilities, preferences, and symbolic interpretation limits the generalisability of datasets and presents a cold start problem. Furthermore, countries with underdeveloped social welfare and health infrastructure, the Philippines serving as an illustrative example, have few practitioners able to fine-tune AAC devices or support inclusive decision making. Consequently, this exacerbates resource constraints, which motivates systems to offer consumer-level ease of use. Rural areas, in any socioeconomic setting, lack reliable network connectivity: designers should anticipate regular on-device computation, leaving networked tasks to limited occasions. Technologies for disabilities, broadly speaking, are related to all 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals [21]. Additionally, AAC is a focus area of UNICEF's work on disabilities and inclusion for marginalised children [2]. By proposing HDC as a way to mediate diverse feature spaces, search and recommendation applications are able to reuse semantic components and process structures - reducing costs. This flexibility enables adaptation to underserved cultures, where localised symbol interpretations are particularly needed [3]. A similar approach has been taken to circulate open access symbols [2]. HDC's development comes from an interdisciplinary perspective, implementing cognitive and linguistic science precepts computationally [8]. Building on this idea, AAC for search requires wider collaboration with entities outside the traditional information retrieval (IR) community, such as speech pathologists, disability support workers, and end users with disabilities.