It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 1st International Workshop on Leadership and Management in Software Architecture -- LMSA08. This year's workshop is the first one that we can recall that was devoted exclusively to leadership and management skills of the software architect. The mission of our workshop is to provide vital information to the community at large in two areas -- how can software engineering education and internal training in industry be improved to get the architects of tomorrow ready for the management challenges that they will face. 
 
Our workshop is off to an inauspicious start, with only 5 presenters. However, we expect a lively workshop and we feel that the attendees and the presenters have some very important things to say; information that can make a real impact on the software engineering profession. The attendees and chairs cumulatively have extensive experience in the field. Co-chair Len Bass, for example, has written two books on software architecture. Co-chair Brian Berenbach, from 1975 to 1993 was a senior solution architect designing and installing industrial and power plant control systems, first for American Cyanamid Company and then for ABB Corporation. Several of the presenters and attendees have also worked in industry as engineering managers or solution architects. 
 
As project size increases, the chief solution architect becomes less of a technologist and more of a manager. On very large projects, he becomes the technical management linchpin that can drive a project to successful completion or utter failure. Without awareness of the challenges he or she faces, prior apprenticeships and good people skills, a senior architect may be unprepared for the challenges of managing diverse teams, complex system construction, with aggressive schedules and rapidly changing technologies. We expect to address these issues in our workshop, and, hopefully, make a real contribution in terms of checklists and guides. 
 
Moreover, the architect and the development team do not exist in a vacuum within an organization. Organizations must provide support for the career development of an architect, they must understand the importance of software architecture in the development life cycle beginning with project feasibility and including project budget and scheduling. 
 
Our presented papers touch on some of these issues -- the architect skill set and the training of the architect. The papers by Berenbach, Creighton and Singer, Islam and Dong and Ali Babar deal with the skills of the software architect. The paper by Sangwan and Ros touches on the organizational implications associated with global development. We expect the workshop to deal not only with the individual skills of the architect and how they develop them but the educational and organizational infrastructure to nurture and support them.