We study the power of selling opaque products, i.e., products where a feature (such as color, brand, or time) is hidden from the customer until after purchase. Opaque products have emerged as a powerful vehicle to increase revenue for many online retailers, service providers, and travel agents that offer horizontally differentiated items. Customers who are indifferent about the hidden feature typically opt for an opaque product in exchange for a price discount, while customers with strong preferences typically opt for a traditional item at full price. In the models we consider, all traditional items are sold at a single price alongside opaque products corresponding to every possible subset of items. The price of opaque products of the same size are constrained to be the same for practicality. Alternatively, another common approach to increase revenue is to explicitly charge different prices for the items, which we refer to as discriminatory pricing, as opposed to charging one price for all the items, which we refer to as single pricing. In this work, we benchmark the revenue of opaque selling strategies against optimal discriminatory pricing for lower bounds and optimal single pricing for upper bounds. Conceptually, our opaque selling strategy balances the impartiality of single pricing with the price discrimination capabilities of discriminatory pricing. We consider two types of customer behavior with respect to opaque products, both of which may occur in various applications. Specifically, a customer is called pessimistic if they believe the opaque product will yield their least desired item, and is called risk-neutral if they believe the opaque product will allocate the items with equal probability. In general, we assume customers are unit-demand and utility-maximizing, with i.i.d. item valuations. We show that when customers are pessimistic, opaque selling always dominates discriminatory pricing under any item valuation distribution. When customers are risk-neutral, opaque selling dominates discriminatory pricing in the case where item valuations take only two values (high or low). We also show that opaque selling with just one opaque product can provide up to and at most twice the revenue from single pricing. The revenue increase from having exponentially many opaque products is also at most a constant factor of the revenue from single pricing.