According to PCAST 2012 report [1], from 2012 to 2021 the number in STEM graduates must be increased by 1 million in order to meet the nation's workforce needed. By 2018, the Hispanic community comprised only the six percent of the US workforce in STEM [2]. This scenario presents a continuous challenge for Hispanic Serving Institutions (HIS). The Computing Research and Engineering Lab (CoRE Lab) was created as an initiative to attend the lack of engagement of Computer Engineering Students at Inter American University of Puerto Rico - Bayamon campus, an HSI. We at CoRE Lab used the participation of students at STEM related competitions as a hook to create a coworking space to engage students. The space turned challenges into opportunities to develop students' skills and increase their engagement. First, a relatively big number of students (25+) working in the same physical space was used to develop leadership skills; leaders were assigned to different sub teams according to the requirements of the different projects. Second, students from different levels converging at CoRE Lab presented a diversity challenge. This was turned into the opportunity to practice mentoring between students. Third, engineering students working at one or two projects presented a time management challenge. This situation was used to develop time management skills. Students were required to create schedules and to generate periodical reports on their progress. In addition, and with the support of the Computing Alliance of Hispanic Serving Institutions (CAHSI), the CoRE Lab space was the ideal space to implement an evidence-based practice Peer-Led-Team Learning (PLTL) with success. Finally, a key factor in the success of CoRE Lab was the dynamic of the interaction in the group. The space was recognized by the students as Their space, adding a sense of belonging to the space. It is recognized as a place where students can work on their projects, study, and share while improving their academic and professional skills. The success of this effort can be seen through different factors after three years of the first project: first, the number of students participating in extracurricular projects went from six to twenty seven; second, the number of students participating in summer internships went from seven to seventeen; third, the full implementation of the PLTL program for CS1 was consolidate with eight totally volunteer students and impacting over fifty computer engineering freshmen in the last academic year.