Read disturbance in modern DRAM is an important robustness (security, safety, and reliability) problem, where repeatedly accessing (hammering) a row of DRAM cells (DRAM row) induces bitflips in other physically nearby DRAM rows. Shrinking technology node size exacerbates DRAM read disturbance over generations. To help mitigate read disturbance, the latest DDR5 specifications (as of April 2024) introduced a new RowHammer mitigation framework, called Per Row Activation Counting (PRAC). PRAC 1) enables the DRAM chip to accurately track row activations by allocating an activation counter per row and 2) provides the DRAM chip with the necessary time window to perform RowHammer-preventive refreshes by introducing a new back-off signal. Unfortunately, no prior work rigorously studies PRAC’s security guarantees and overheads. In this paper, we 1) present the first rigorous security, performance, energy, and cost analyses of PRAC and 2) propose Chronus, a new mechanism that addresses PRAC’s two major weaknesses. Our analysis shows that PRAC’s system performance overhead on benign applications is non-negligible for modern DRAM chips and prohibitively large for future DRAM chips that are more vulnerable to read disturbance. We identify two weaknesses of PRAC that cause these overheads. First, PRAC increases critical DRAM access latency parameters due to the additional time required to increment activation counters. Second, PRAC performs a constant number of preventive refreshes at a time, making it vulnerable to an adversarial access pattern, known as the wave attack, and consequently requiring it to be configured for significantly smaller activation thresholds. To address PRAC’s two weaknesses, we propose a new on-DRAM-die RowHammer mitigation mechanism, Chronus. Chronus 1) updates row activation counters concurrently while serving accesses by separating counters from the data and 2) prevents the wave attack by dynamically controlling the number of preventive refreshes performed. Our performance analysis shows that Chronus’s system performance overhead is near-zero for modern DRAM chips and very low for future DRAM chips. Chronus outperforms three variants of PRAC and three other state-of-the-art read disturbance solutions. We discuss Chronus’s and PRAC’s implications for future systems and foreshadow future research directions. To aid future research, we open-source our Chronus implementation at https://github.com/CMU-SAFARI/Chronus.