Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) is a set of powerful cryptographic schemes that allows computation to be performed directly on encrypted data with an unlimited depth. Despite FHE’s promising in privacy-preserving computing, yet in most FHE schemes, ciphertext generally blows up thousands of times compared to the original message, and the massive amount of data load from off-chip memory for bootstrapping and privacy-preserving machine learning applications (such as HELR, ResNet-20), both degrade the performance of FHE-based computation. Several hardware designs have been proposed to address this issue, however, most of them require enormous resources and power. An acceleration platform with easy programmability, high efficiency, and low overhead is a prerequisite for practical application. This paper proposes EFFACT, a highly efficient full-stack FHE acceleration platform with a compiler that provides comprehensive optimizations and vector-friendly hardware. We start by examining the computational overhead across different real-world benchmarks to highlight the potential benefits of reallocating computing resources for efficiency enhancement. Then we make a design space exploration to find an optimal SRAM size with high utilization and low cost. On the other hand, EFFACT features a novel optimization named streaming memory access which is proposed to enable high throughput with limited SRAMs. Regarding the software-side optimization, we also propose a circuit-level function unit reuse scheme, to substantially reduce the computing resources without performance degradation. Moreover, we design novel NTT and automorphism units that are suitable for a cost-sensitive and highly efficient architecture, leading to low area. For generality, EFFACT is also equipped with an ISA and a compiler backend that can support several FHE schemes like CKKS, BGV, and BFV. We provide both FPGA and ASIC versions of EFFACT. On account of our full stack design, FPGA-EFFACT outperforms the SOTA FPGA accelerators in gmean by $1.22 \times$. Meanwhile, ASIC-EFFACT shows increased improvements in terms of the performance per chip area and the performance per Watt compared with the SOTA ASIC works.