s — Wednesday, January 12 8:30am David Stevenson CalTech Why Multicomponent Systems and their Phase Diagrams are Essential for Understanding Planets Our home planet is layered: An iron-dominated core over a silicate and oxide dominated mantle. This sharp separation is a consequence of Earth’s low temperature relative to the critical conditions for the intimate mixing of the two end-members. Jupiter is almost(but not quite) in the opposite regime where the two dominant constituents (hydrogen and helium) may be considered well mixed. This strong dichotomy (well mixed and fully separated) is the exception and not the rule among planets and is even somewhat misleading when thinking about our own planets. It is a mistake to imagine that we can understand planets by an obsession with end members (e.g., iron, silicates, hydrogen, water) because the expected temperature and pressure conditions often place us in a regime where the multicomponent aspect becomes essential. After a brief recap concerning H-He (a system that is still imperfectly understood) I will make some observations concerning iron-silicate and its importance of exoplanets (including a denial of the common assumption that these planets should have a core and a mantle). Silicate-hydrogen is also an important binary phase diagram that has major implications for the evolution of so-called superEarths. Hydrogen-water is central to understanding so-called ice giants (e.g., Uranus). More generally, the usual designations that work at low pressure (e.g., polar or nonpolar) will break down at high pressure so that components such as methane and water may be less antagonistic at high pressure . The issues before us are computationally difficult, almost invariably involve fluid, not solid, phases (because planets must be hot) and often call out for more experimental guidance, though doubtless there is also a place for simulation. They are not details since they can profoundly affect planetary evolution, presence or absence of a magnetic field, and composition of the atmosphere; in short just about everything you might care to understand or measure. 9:30am Soledad Villar Johns Hopkins University Scalars are Universal: Equivariant Machine Learning, Structured Like Classical Physics There has been enormous progress in the last few years in designing neural networks that respect the fundamental symmetries and coordinate freedoms of physical law. Some of these frameworks make use of irreducible representations, some make use of high-order tensor objects, and some apply symmetry-enforcing constraints. Different physical laws obey different combinations of fundamental symmetries, but a large fraction (possibly all) of classical physics is equivariant to translation, rotation, reflection (parity), boost (relativity), and permutations. Here we show that it is simple to parameterize universally approximating polynomial functions that are equivariant under these symmetries, or under the Euclidean, Lorentz, and Poincaré groups, at any dimensionality d. The key observation is that nonlinear O(d)-equivariant (and related-group-equivariant) functions can be universally expressed in terms of a lightweight collection of scalars—scalar products and scalar contractions of the scalar, vector, and tensor inputs. We complement our theory with numerical examples that show that the scalar-based method is simple, efficient, and scalable. Joint work with David W. Hogg, Kate Storey-Fisher, Weichi Yao and Ben Blum-Smith. 10:45am Russell J. Hemley University of Illinois, Chicago New Findings in Planetary Materials under Extreme Conditions Advances in static and dynamic compression techniques at smallto large-scale facilities are making possible key measurements on materials at high P −T conditions needed both for planetary interior models and to test fundamental theory. Notable examples include studies of structures, equations of state, phase diagrams, and transport and electronic properties of materials dominated by the cosmically abundant elements H, O, and Fe. Studies of hydrogen and hydrogen-rich systems have uncovered transformations from insulating to metallic (and superconducting) states up to several hundred GPa. Optical studies of ramp-compressed hydrogen isotopes at the National Ignition Facility (NIF) pinpoint the high P-T transition to the conducting fluid, including in regimes that overlap static compression studies, and related experiments have been conducted on hydrogen-helium mixtures. Recent synchrotron IR/THz and x-ray measurements reveal new information on the quantum disordered phase of dense H2O ice near 100 GPa as well as the structure and superionic solid phases at higher temperatures relevant to ice giant planets. Theoretical calculations predict the stability of a novel H3O phase at higher P − T conditions, with implications for the enigmatic magnetic fields of these planets. Finally, X-ray diffraction of dynamically compressed Fe to above 1 TPa on NIF document the stability of the hexagonal-closed packed structure to these pressures and provide a direct determination of its melting curve, a result that constrains the occurrence and longevity of magnetodynamos in super-Earth exoplanets. 11:30am Angel Bueno University of Granada Spotlight: Deep Learning Architectures for Polyphonic Detection, Classification and Segmentation of Signals from Streaming Seismic Data in Planetary Missions 11:45am Lauri Oksanen University of Helsinki Inverse Problem for the Wave Equation on Lorentzian Manifolds The inverse problem for the wave equation asks us to recover the speed of sound given restricted information on solutions to the equation. It models remote sensing using acoustic waves. The problem is well-understood when the speed of sound is independent of time, however, much less is known on the geometric formulation of the problem where the canonical wave equation on a Lorentzian manifold is considered. Inverse problems for several non-linear wave equations, for example, the Einstein equations, can be solved in a very general Lorentzian context, and this gives hope that the corresponding problems for the linear wave equation are solvable as well. We have developed a method of solving inverse boundary value problems for wave equations on Lorentzian manifolds, and shown that the Lorentzian metric in a fixed conformal class can be recovered under certain curvature bounds. The set of Lorentzian metrics satisfying the curvature bounds is open with respect to smooth enough perturbations of the metric, whereas all previous results on this problem impose conditions on the metric that force it to be real analytic with respect to a suitable time variable. Very recently we were able to weaken the curvature bounds so that perturbations of the Minkowski metric are covered by our theory. The talk is based on joint work with Spyros Alexakis and Ali Feizmohammadi. 4:00pm Samory K. Kpotufe Columbia University From Theory to Clustering Clustering is a basic problem in data analysis, consisting of partitioning data into meaningful groups called clusters. Practical clustering procedures tend to meet two criteria: flexibility in the shapes and number of clusters estimated, and efficient processing. While many practical procedures might meet either of these criteria in different applications, general guarantees often only hold for theoretical procedures that are hard if not impossible to implement. A main aim is to address this gap. We will discuss two recent approaches that compete with state-of-the-art procedures, while at the same time relying on rigorous analysis of clustering. The first approach fits within the framework of density-based clustering, a family of flexible clustering approaches. It builds primarily on theoretical insights on nearest-neighbor graphs, a geometric data structure shown to encode local information on the data density. The second approach speeds up kernel k-means, a popular Hilbert space embedding and clustering method. This more efficient approach relies on a new interpretation and alternative use of kernel-sketching as a geometry-preserving random projection in Hilbert space. Finally, we will present recent experimental results combining the benefits of both approaches in the IoT application domain. The talk is based on various works with collaborators Sanjoy Dasgupta, Kamalika Chaudhuri, Ulrike von Luxburg, Heinrich Jiang, Bharath Sriperumbudur, Kun Yang and Nick Feamster. 4:45pm John Biersteker MIT Spotlight: Characterization of Icy Moon Interiors with Magnetic Induction and Bayesian Inference 5:00pm Daniel Thorngren Université de Montréal Giant Exoplanet Population Physics Extrasolar planet discoveries of the past years have dramatically expanded the set of giant planets available for study, including to extreme conditions not found in the solar system. Unfortunately, the data available for each planet is much more limited and less precise than has been enjoyed for solar system giants. In this talk, I will discuss how we can leverage the large sample size to better understand the interior structure, and evolution of giant exoplanets. In particular, I will review my work on cool giant compositions and hot Jupiter heating and evolution as well as related work by others. I will also discuss how this analysis can synergize with atmospheric observations and the connections with our understanding of planet formation. Finally, I’ll outline some future work which could help to push the field forward. Abstracts — Thursday, January 13s — Thursday, January 13 8:30am Katie Bouman CalTech Beyond the First Portrait of a Black Hole As imaging requirements become more demanding, we must rely on increasingly sparse and/or noisy measurements that fail to paint a complete picture. Computational imaging pipelines, which replace optics with computation, have enabled image formation in situations that are impossible for conventional optical imaging. For instance, the first black hole im