
 Aperiodic metamaterials represent a class of structural systems that are composed of different building blocks (cells), instead of a self-repeating chain of the same unit cells. Optimizing aperiodic cellular structural systems thus presents high-dimensional design problems, that become intractable to solve using purely high-fidelity structural analysis coupled with optimization. Specialized analytical modeling along with metamodel based optimization can provide a more tractable alternative to designing such aperiodic metamaterials. To explore this concept, this paper presents an initial design automation framework applied to a case study representative of a simple 1D metamaterial system. The case under consideration is a drill string, where vibration suppression is of utmost importance. The drill string comprises a set of nonuniform rings attached to the outer surface of a longitudinal rod. As such, the resultant system can now be perceived as an aperiodic 1D metamaterial with each ring/gap representing a cell. Despite being a 1D system, the simultaneous consideration of multiple degrees of freedom (associated with torsional, axial, and lateral motions) poses significant computational challenges. To deal with these challenges, a transfer matrix method (TMM) is employed to analytically determine the frequency response of the drill string. However, due to the minute scale cost of the TMM method, the optimization remains computationally burdensome. This latter challenge is addressed by training a suite of neural networks on a set of TMM samples, with each network providing the response w.r.t. a specific frequency. Optimization is then performed to minimize mass subject to constraints on the gap between consecutive resonance peaks in one case, and minimizing this gap in the second case. Crucial improvements are accomplished over the initial baselines in both cases. Further novel contributions occur through the development of an inverse modeling approach that can learn optimal inverse designs with minimum mass and a desirable non-resonant frequency range, which partially mimics band gap behavior in perfectly periodic dispersive structures. To this end, we introduce the use of an emerging modeling formalism called in-vertible neural nets. Our study indicates that the inverse model is able to generate constraint satisfying designs with slightly higher mass.