Personalized recommendation plays an important role in many online services. Substantial research has been dedicated to learning embeddings of users and items to predict a user's preference for an item based on the similarity of the representations. In many settings, there is abundant relationship information, including user-item interaction history, user-user and item-item similarities. In an attempt to exploit these relationships to learn better embeddings, researchers have turned to the emerging field of Graph Convolutional Neural Networks (GCNs), and applied GCNs for recommendation. Although these prior works have demonstrated promising performance, directly apply GCNs to process the user-item bipartite graph is suboptimal because the GCNs do not consider the intrinsic differences between user nodes and item nodes. Additionally, existing large-scale graph neural networks use aggregation functions such as sum/mean/max pooling operations to generate a node embedding that considers the nodes' neighborhood (i.e., the adjacent nodes in the graph), and these simple aggregation strategies fail to preserve the relational information in the neighborhood. To resolve the above limitations, in this paper, we propose a novel framework NIA-GCN, which can explicitly model the relational information between neighbor nodes and exploit the heterogeneous nature of the user-item bipartite graph. We conduct empirical studies on four public benchmarks, demonstrating a significant improvement over state-of-the-art approaches. Furthermore, we generalize our framework to a commercial App store recommendation scenario. We observe significant improvement on a large-scale commercial dataset, demonstrating the practical potential for our proposed solution as a key component of a large scale commercial recommender system. Furthermore, online experiments are conducted to demonstrate that NIA-GCN outperforms the baseline by 10.19% and 9.95% in average in terms of CTR and CVR during ten-day AB test in a mainstream App store.