With the emergence of the voice personal assistant (VPA) ecosystem, third-party developers are allowed to build new voice-apps are called skills in the Amazon Alexa platform and actions in the Google Assistant platform, respectively. For the sake of brevity, we use the term skills to describe voice-apps including Amazon skills and Google actions, unless we need to distinguish them for different VPA platforms. and publish them to the skills store, which greatly extends the functionalities of VPAs. Before a new skill becomes publicly available, that skill must pass a certification process, which verifies that it meets the necessary content and privacy policies. The trustworthiness of skill certification is of significant importance to platform providers, developers, and end users. Yet, little is known about how difficult it is for a policy-violating skill to get certified and published in VPA platforms. In this work, we study the trustworthiness of the skill certification in Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant platforms to answer three key questions: 1) Whether the skill certification process is trustworthy in terms of catching policy violations in third-party skills. 2) Whether there exist policy-violating skills published in their skills stores. 3) What are VPA users' perspectives on the skill certification and their vulnerable usage behavior when interacting with VPA devices? Over a span of 15 months, we crafted and submitted for certification 234 Amazon Alexa skills and 381 Google Assistant actions that intentionally violate content and privacy policies specified by VPA platforms. Surprisingly, we successfully got 234 (100%) policy-violating Alexa skills certified and 148 (39%) policy-violating Google actions certified. Our analysis demonstrates that policy-violating skills exist in the current skills stores, and thus users (children, in particular) are at risk when using VPA services. We conducted a user study with 203 participants to understand users' misplaced trust on VPA platforms. Unfortunately, user expectations are not being met by the skill certification in leading VPA platforms.