Vibration analysis of beam type structures rested on a non – linear foundation has recently received a remarkable amount of attention due to importance and various applications of the subject. The differential quadrature method is an effective numerical technique for initial and boundary problems; it has not been applied to calculate nonlinear behaviors of Timoshenko beam rested on non-linear viscoelastic foundation. Application of the multiple scales method (MSM), method of Shaw and Pierre, method of normal forms and method of King and Vakakis in free vibration analysis of a simply supported beam rested on non – linear elastic foundation have been summarized by Nayfeh.1 Ming-Hung Hsu2 proposed new version differential quadrature method to obtain the vibration characteristics of rectangular plates resting on elastic foundations and carrying any number of sprung masses. The electrostatic behavior of the fixed-fixed beam type micro-actuators was simulated using the differential quadrature method by MingHung Hsu.3 The vehicle load is one of the most important reasons for road damage. These pavements – vehicle systems can be theoretically modeled as beams supported by foundations subjected to moving forces of load similar to spring – mass. A novel state-space formulation was used by Giuseppe Muscolino & Alessandro Palmeri4 to scrutinize the response of beams resting on viscoelastically damped foundation under moving single degree of freedom oscillator.4 Li-Qun Chen5 paid special attentions to different nonlinear models and the introduction of the material time derivative into the viscoelastic constitutive relations. Iancu-Bogdan Teodoru & Vasile Musat6 applied Vlasov approach to beams resting on elastic supports. Davood Younesian et al.,7 solve the nonlinear governing differential equation of an elastic beam rested on a nonlinear foundation using Variational Iteration Method (VIM). Numerical solutions based on differential quadrature method were introduced for different structural problems.8 EJ Sapountzakis and AE Kampitsis9 developed boundary element method for the nonlinear dynamic analysis of beam-columns of an arbitrary doubly symmetric simply or multiply connected constant cross section, partially supported on a nonlinear three-parameter viscoelastic foundation. Galerkin method was used to find the response of a Timoshenko beam supported by a nonlinear foundation by Yan Yang et al.,10 also the convergence of this method was studied. Hu Ding et al.,11 used the Adomian decomposition method and a perturbation method in conjunction with complex Fourier transformation to get the solution of the governing differential equations for Timoshenko beams with defined length supported by nonlinear viscoelastic foundations subjected to a moving concentrated force.