It is our greatest pleasure to welcome you to the First ACM SIGMOBILE International Workshop on Systems and Networking Support for Healthcare and Assisted Living Environments (HealthNet'07), co-located with ACM MobiSys 2007. We have put together an excellent technical program that we hope you will enjoy and that you take advantage of the excellent group of people that have come together for HealthNet 07. 
 
As the world's population grows older, healthcare and high-tech companies are joining forces. New technologies are being used to provide improved support for elderly and home bound people in their homes and in assisted living environments. The overall goal of these initiatives is to improve quality of life by providing customized support to people in need of assistance. The ultimate goal is a system that can adapt to the users' needs, helping them get through their daily routine in a way that is effective in providing support where needed without making them feel humiliated by excessive attention. To provide such support, it will be necessary to combine efforts from many areas of computer science, including networking, distributed systems, security, data management, HCI and middleware. The mission of the HealthNet workshop is to bring together researchers from both industry and academia from these different areas to provide a forum for discussing the cross-area interactions that will be necessary for successful systems and applications. HealthNet, therefore, gives researchers and practitioners a unique opportunity to share their perspectives with others interested in the various aspects of healthcare systems. 
 
After a very successful publicity phase, the response to the call for papers was extremely positive. We received a total of 45 submissions from 11 countries with papers from Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. These papers cover diverse topics from architectures and protocols to case-studies and real-world experiences. The selection of papers for this year's program was carried out by a 17 member international technical program committee. As a result of our review and discussion phase, a total of 13 full papers were accepted for presentation at the conference, which corresponds to a competitive acceptance rate of 28%. Additionally, we accepted 9 short papers to be presented as posters during the workshop.