At the dawn of the new millennium, it is useful to pause and reflect on the role of SOSP. It is hard to believe that SOSP is over 35 years old! The first one was held in 1965, long before many of the attendees of this conference were born. In those 35 years, computing has been transformed in ways that were unimaginable back in 1965. Somehow, SOSP has retained its reputation as the premier forum for research results in experimental computer systems. How has it succeeded in this role for so long?I believe that there are two reasons. First and foremost is the dedication and hard work of the many individuals who have served on the SOSP program committees. These are talented individuals with heavy demands on their time. Their willingness to devote a substantial part of that time to the SOSP review process shows their commitment to preserving the quality of SOSP. The second reason is SOSP's broad charter. In spite of the emergence of more specialized conferences in areas such as networking, mobile computing, reliability and security, SOSP continues to welcome work of the highest quality in those areas. This broad view of experimental computer systems has served SOSP well, and will continue to be one of its strengths as we discover further new dimensions to computing.This year we received 85 submissions: lower than in the past two SOSPs, but well within the observed long-term range. We accepted 17 of the 85, and nominated two as award papers to ACM TOCS ("Untrusted Hosts and Confidentiality: Secure Program Partitioning" and "BASE: Using Abstraction to Improve Fault Tolerance"). All acceptances were conditional, pending successful shepherding by a program committee member. This long-standing SOSP tradition has been an important factor in ensuring high quality. The reviewing process we used was a variant of one that has worked well in the past. Four program committee members reviewed each paper; each of those members also obtained one review from an external reviewer. Thus, most papers received eight reviews. In addition, each program committee member was required to skim about half the papers he or she did not review. This combination of deep understanding as well as broad familiarity with the submissions led to thoughtful and well-informed discussions at the program committee meeting. Some of the negative decisions were painful and heartbreaking: we felt that many of the rejected papers showed a lot of promise, and that improved versions would be strong future submissions to SOSP or other conferences. Besides the reviewed papers, the conference has three invited speakers, a poster session, and a work-in-progress session.