Pattern mining is an important aspect of data mining, concerned with finding local structure in data. Traditionally, the focus of research in pattern mining has been on completeness and efficiency. That is, trying to find all potentially interesting patterns as fast as possible. This focus, important as it is, has led our attention away from the most important aspect of the exercise: leading to useful results. Let's consider the following example. 
 
Say a domain expert wants to extract novel knowledge from some data, and specifically wants to know what patterns are present in the data. To do so, the expert involves a data analyst. The analyst is provided with the data, and runs his favorite pattern mining algorithm. Due to the pattern explosion, the number of discovered patterns the analyst will find will be enormous; the result of the mining exercise often being much larger than the original data. Nevertheless, let us assume our expert patiently considers the result. Although he might stumble upon some interesting patterns, he will mostly encounter very many patterns that convey roughly the same information. Perhaps worse, however, is that he will find that many of the patterns represent information that is already known. 
 
All things considered, even when convinced of the potential, in the above case the expert would not be very impressed by the usefulness of pattern mining. Unlike in other fields of data mining, such as clustering, in pattern mining presentation and visualization has not been a priority. However, even when we forget about presentation to a user, patterns are not yet as useful as they could be. While they provide highly detailed descriptions of phenomena in data, it remains difficult to make good use of them in, say, e.g., classification or clustering. While this is mostly due to the huge number of discovered patterns, making the result unwieldy at best, it does pose interesting research questions like 'how to select patterns such that they are useful?'. Techniques that summarize the result exist, but focus primarily on being able to reconstruct the full set, instead of targeting the usability of the summarized set. As such, research into techniques that mine small sets of high-quality patterns is required, where high-quality is directly related their intended use.