Since the early Sixties and Seventies it has been known that the regular and context-free languages are characterized by definability in the monadic second-order theory of certain structures. More recently, these descriptive characterizations have been used to obtain complexity results for constraintand principle-based theories of syntax and to provide a uniform model-theoretic framework for exploring the relationship between theories expressed in disparate formal terms. These results have been limited, to an extent, by the lack of descriptive characterizations of language classes beyond the context-free. Recently, we have shown that tree-adjoining languages (in a mildly generalized form) can be characterized by recognition by automata operating on three-dimensional tree manifolds, a three-dimensional analog of trees. In this paper, we exploit these automatatheoretic results to obtain a characterization of the tree-adjoining languages by definability in the monadic second-order theory of these three-dimensional tree manifolds. This not only opens the way to extending the tools of modeltheoretic syntax to the level of TALs, but provides a highly flexible mechanism for defining TAGs in terms of logical constraints. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n In the early Sixties Biichi (1960) and Elgot (1961) established that a set of strings was regular iff it was definable in the weak monadic second-order theory of the natural numbers with successor (wS1S). In the early Seventies an extension to the context-free languages was obtained by Thatcher and Wright (1968) and Doner (1970) who established that the CFLs were all and only the sets of strings forming the yield of sets of finite trees definable in the weak monadic second-order theory of multiple successors (wSnS). These descriptive characterizations have natural application to constraintand principle-based theories of syntax. We have employed them in exploring the language-theoretic complexity of theories in GB (Rogers, 1994; Rogers, 1997b) and GPSG (Rogers, 1997a) and have used these model-theoretic interpretations as a uniform framework in which to compare these formalisms (Rogers, 1996). They have also provided a foundation for an approach to principle-based parsing via compilation into tree-automata (Morawietz and Cornell, 1997). Outside the realm of Computational Linguistics, these results have been employed in theorem proving with applications to program and hardware verification (Henriksen et al., 1995; Biehl et al., 1996; Kelb et al., 1997). The scope of each of these applications is limited, to some extent, by the fact that there are no such descriptive characterizations of classes of languages beyond the context-free. As a result, there has been considerable interest in extending the basic results (MSnnich, 1997; Volger, 1997) but, prior to the work reported here, the proposed extensions have not preserved the simplicity of the original results. Recently, in (Rogers, 1997c), we introduced a class of labeled three-dimensional tree-like structures (three-dimensional tree manifolds-3-TM) which serve simultaneously as the derived and derivation structures of Tree Adjoining-Grammars (TAGs) in exactly the same way that labeled trees can serve as both derived and derivation structures for CFGs. We defined a class of automata over these structures that are a generalization of tree-automata (which are, in turn, an analogous generalization of ordinary finite-state automata over strings) and showed that the class of tree manifolds rec-