We welcome you to PaIR 08, the 1st workshop on patent information retrieval, organized by the Information Retrieval Facility (IRF) and Matrixware Information Services. 
 
Patent Information Retrieval is an active and challenging field both for researchers and for professional information specialists. Patents play a key role not only in protecting intellectual property but also as a strategic business factor in all modern economies. Despite the enormous advances in Information Retrieval techniques in the past few years, advanced search tools for patent professionals are still in their infancy, so the research in patent retrieval represents an important opportunity for research. 
 
Patent search is a particular challenge to information retrieval and access systems. Amongst the challenges successful patent search of search system of the future will have to face are; 
very large numbers of highly complex structured documents; 
highly heterogeneous document collections (scientific papers, legal public disclosure as well as patents); 
multiple languages; 
ambiguous and conflicting jargon; complex 
technological concepts; 
sophisticated legal jargon; 
ranges and other complex query forms 
tracking temporal issues like publication data 
tabular and graphical information mixed into text; 
and so on. 
 
 
 
The objective of the workshop is to provide a forum for Information Retrieval and Knowledge Management scientists as well as Patent Retrieval experts from industry to study the next generation of patent search tools. The workshop presents a balanced mixture of IP professionals, presenting their special information needs and IR&KM researchers, presenting relevant technical ideas, for example for high recall search in prior art searching or new approaches to patent and technology landscape searching. 
 
We hope the workshop will be a springboard for many future events and lead to the recognition of patent searching as one of the central areas of research in Information Retrieval and Knowledge Management. 
 
The number of submitted papers, their quality and the variety of topics they explored show that Patent Information Retrieval is a multidisciplinary field. The program committee accepted seven full papers that cover topics like large-scale patent annotations, chemical IR, patent search strategies or ideas on measuring the progress of system performance for retrieval tasks in the intellectual property domain. Because we had many more high quality papers submitted than could be presented orally we decided to also give a number of other authors the opportunity to present their work as posters.