The papers in this volume were presented at the 43rd ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), held June 6-8, 2011 in San Jose, California, as part of the fifth Federated Computing Research Conference (FCRC). STOC is sponsored by the ACM Special Interest Group on Algorithms and Computation Theory (SIGACT). 
 
The papers at STOC were selected by the program committee from among 304 submissions received by November 4, 2010 (5 of which were withdrawn by authors during the review process). The committee did its work by a combination of extensive electronic discussion and a physical meeting of the entire committee in San Francisco on January 26-27, 2011. These proceedings contain the 84 papers that were accepted to STOC, one of which is a merge of two related submissions. Three pairs of papers having similar results shared presentation slots at the conference, for a total of 81 talks. All submissions received careful consideration, but they were not refereed in a formal sense. Authors are encouraged to submit full versions of their papers to journals for a complete review and archival publication. 
 
The committee selected two papers for a Best Paper Award: "Electrical Flows, Laplacian Systems, and Faster Approximation of Maximum Flow in Undirected Graphs," by Paul Christiano, Jonathan A. Kelner, Aleksander Madry, Daniel A. Spielman, and Shang-Hua Teng, and "Subexponential Lower Bounds for Randomized Pivoting Rules for the Simplex Algorithm," by Oliver Friedmann, Thomas Dueholm Hansen, and Uri Zwick. The committee selected "Analyzing Network Coding Gossip Made Easy" by Bernhard Haeupler for the Danny Lewin Best Student Paper Award. 
 
STOC was preceded by an FCRC plenary talk on June 5 given by Leslie Valiant as recipient of the 2011 ACM Turing Award for his transformative contributions to the theory of computation, including the theory of probably approximately correct (PAC) learning, the complexity of enumeration and of algebraic computation, and the theory of parallel and distributed computing. At the conference, the 11th Knuth Prize was awarded to Ravi Kannan for his work on algorithmic techniques that have fundamentally contributed to computational complexity, discrete mathematics, geometry, and operations research. He presented the Knuth Prize Lecture as an FCRC plenary talk on the morning of June 7. 
 
The program committee also decided to add a Poster Session, held on the evening of June 6, to increase the opportunities for disseminating and discussing research at the conference. Posters were not refereed; any registered FCRC attendee could present a poster on research in any aspect of theoretical computer science.