It is my great pleasure to welcome you to POPL'06, the 33rd ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages, one of the flagship conferences in the programming languages calendar.The Call for Papers attracted a total of 167 submissions. Each paper was assigned to three members of the program committee. Committee members were expected to read each paper assigned to them, and write a review, but were also encouraged to seek additional reviews from others. In practice, most papers indeed benefited from these additional reviews. We are hugely grateful to these referees, whose names are listed later in this proceedings.All the reviews were made available to authors a week before the program committee meeting, so that they had the opportunity to make a 500-word response. These responses were read by the committee members responsible, and were taken into account during the committee's discussions. I did not ask committee members to make a written reply to each author response.The committee held a physical meeting in Cambridge, England, on 21st and 22nd September, which every member of the committee attended. We were conscious that POPL's rejection ratio is comparatively high, because it receives so many submissions, and that, as a result, high-quality papers might be rejected. For 2006 we decided to increase the number of accepted papers by shortening the length of each talk from 30 to 25 minutes, and by extending the conference to a full three days (as in 2005). Nevertheless, our over-riding concern was to maintain the standard of accepted papers. Balancing these concerns, we eventually accepted 33 papers, a rather modest increase over the 31 accepted in 2005, but the shorter talks have made it possible to have shorter sessions and longer breaks during the conference. I would welcome your feedback about whether or not you regard these changes as improvements.The POPL'06 program also features three invited talks, given by James McKinna, Martin Odersky, and Tim Sweeney.