It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 4th edition of the UPGRADE-CN workshop that takes place this year at the ACM/IEEE HPDC 2009 Symposium, in Munich, Germany. The mission of the workshop is to provide a forum to discuss recent enhancements of Content Distribution Networks (CDNs) and more general Content Networks (CNs). 
 
The three previous editions, which took place respectively at HPDC 2006 in Paris, HPDC 2007 in Monterey (CA), USA, and Boston (MA), USA have already confirmed the vitality of this research field and the necessity to exploit novel models and software technologies to improve the performance of content-oriented networks and make them suited for academic and industrial applications. In particular, P2P and Grid computing paradigms, often with the support of mobile agents that convey crucial information, are demonstrating their suitability in supporting the development of high-performance systems over large-scale, dynamic and heterogeneous environments. 
 
The fourth edition of UPGRADE-CN includes 6 research papers selected through an accurate review process, one invited talk that presents original ideas and results on GRID-oriented systems, and a panel session on trends and future challenges of next generation content networks. 
 
The workshop opens with the invited talk given by Michael Schiffers (Ludwig-Maximilians University of Munich) on "The Role of Virtual Organizations in Grids: Impacts and Challenges". The first session of the workshop includes three talks on content delivery networks focused on surrogate clustering, evaluation of CDN utility and delivery of live events. The second session comprises three talks with a particular focus on networking for content distribution. They present architectures and mechanisms for multicast and wireless-based content delivery. Finally a panel session on next generation content networks in which panelists will discuss new emerging technologies and paradigms (agents, P2P, GRID, mobile computing and cloud computing) for content networks is run. 
 
The quality and variety of the topics covered by UPGRADE-CN papers provide a useful overview over the current research efforts in the field of content-oriented distributed systems and prove the vitality of this research area. We thank the members of the program committee and the reviewers. Their work guaranteed an accurate review process and assured a selection of high quality papers. We hope that you will find this program interesting and thought-provoking and that the workshop will offer you a valuable opportunity to share ideas with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world.