It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the Second International Workshop on Security and Forensics in Communication Systems (ASIACCS-SFCS'2014). This year workshop continues the objectives of the first edition of the workshop aiming at discussing and building emerging security and digital forensic engineering, as disciplined sciences in charge of developing novel scientific and theoretical methods, techniques, and approaches to collect, process, and analyze information retrieved from systems affected by security incidents, in order to generate conclusive descriptions and propose decisions or proofs. 
 
This year's workshop attempts to set up a tradition of being among the fora for presentation of research results and experience reports on leading edge issues of access control, including models, systems, applications, and theory. The mission of the workshop is to propose a platform for sharing novel security control solutions and investigation methods that fulfill the needs of networked applications and environments. It also aims at identifying new directions for future research and development in communication security and forensic science, and giving security researchers and practitioners the opportunity to share their perspectives with scientists and engineers interested in the various aspects of security. 
 
The call for papers attracted multiple submissions from Asia, Europe, Africa, and North America. The program committee accepted only 6 papers that cover a variety of topics, including: security of cloud computing, investigation of data leakage, analysis of tracing systems, privacy preserving in cloud storage systems and the detection of explicit images. 
 
We kindly encourage attendees to attend the invited talk presentations and the six talks planned for the workshop. These valuable and insightful talks can present an interesting forum for the exchange of ideas in innovative disciplines related to network security and forensic investigation. In particular, the invited talk "Security Investigation in Wireless Networks", presented by Dr. Slim Rekhis, from the University of Carthage, Tunisia will discuss the challenges and recent developments in the digital investigation in wireless networks, while highlighting the importance of evidences collection, system visibility and anti-forensic detection.