The problem arouse in Vocational School graduates shown that the schools need to enhance its productivity. School productivity becomes the principal's responsibility by adapting the transformational leadership style. This research aimed at describing and analyzing the impact of the transformational leadership on school productivity. This present study used correlation research method to 286 Vocational School teachers in Bandung Regency. The research finding indicates that there is a positive and significant impact of transformational leadership on the school productivity. Productivity at vocational school is a part of very attractive educational administration study. It is not only because at vocational school, it is known the productive learning, but it also relates to the big cost spent compared to the graduation quality enabling to be absorb by the work world. This big cost relates to the cost required for the learning with higher practical proportion than the theory. The practical learning at vocational school requires many and expensive tools as well as special cost for not few field practices. However, the school selection at vocational school with bigger cost has benefits than the students have to drop out and become total unemployment. Hoxby said that, Although productivity is rarely mentioned and productivity calculations are never made, however, it is very influential on student performance compared to calculate the cost of risk in school. An improvement in the education productivity is needed related from the last problem. (Hoxby, 2003) The Problems from the low productivity can not be tolerated or allowed to drag on because it concerns all the education purpose, which is reflected from the output from the education as stated by Mulyasa. (2011:92) That productivity throughout the education world is related with the whole regulation process and the use of resources to fulfill the education purpo se effectively and efficiently. It relates to this, it is necessary for the educational productivity imp rovement and increase. An improvement in the education productivity is needed related from the last problem. The effort to increase the productivity is conducted at some countries by giving voucher program trusted to be able to help the school to improve its productivity. ( McMillan, 2005). Some of the studies showed that productivity wil l be experiencing an increase when it is supported with an appropriate style of leadership and the skills that are optimal as well as a great work motivation. In addition, there has to pursue improvement on some factors to realize the productivity. Rois (2008:10) shows the factor which is lowering the productivity, n amely: 1) The Headmaster performances that aren't followed by an unclear structure of vision and mission; 2) School organization culture that isn't conducive yet; and 3) the unoptimal teacher competence, as well as lack of facilities and infrastructure in school. Rois's studies emphasize, that the school productivity will be increasing when it's paying attention on the increasing school capacity on some of the factors like leadership, organization culture, and the teacher performance. Saparudin (2012:18) concludes the studies results that the Headmaster's performance, school culture, teacher competence and the need of school facilities contribute as significantly towards the school productivity. Likewise, with the study results from Rahmat (2012:272) which concludes that the Headmaster leadership, school funding, school culture, and the teacher's teaching performance simultaneously effected significantly towards the academic service quality.