We are pleased to welcome you to the First Workshop on Online Social Networks (WOSN 2008). With half a billion active users, online social networks have attained critical mass and triggered intense research interest in collaborative systems and the analysis of the structure and properties of online communities. 
 
In creating WOSN 2008, we had one overarching goal in mind: To bring together researchers and practitioners across various disciplines in order to discuss the challenges and the important questions posed by the emerging online social applications, and advance the state of the art in our understanding of social networks. We believe that the WOSN 2008 program realizes this goal to a large extent by covering several aspects of online social networks, including those of network and system architecture design that are of natural interest to the SIGCOMM community. 
 
In this first workshop on online social networks, we received a total of 40 submissions from universities, academic institutions and the industry. All papers went through a rigorous reviewing process with the majority of papers receiving 3 or more reviews by TPC members and external reviewers. Reviewing was followed by email discussion of controversial papers. Of the 40 papers submitted, a total of 14 were accepted for publication. 
 
Specifically, the workshop program consists of four sessions. The first session of WOSN 2008 is concerned with the impact of social networks on voting, advertising and the flow of information within the social graph. The "face of social networks" is portrayed in the second session of the workshop, where a series of characterization papers examine different properties of online social networks, ranging from structural properties of the social graph to user privacy concerns and user behaviors as these are observed in the online social applications. The third session, titled "who do you trust?", explores efficient system design and architectures for sharing content in online social networks. Mobile social networks and social mobility is the subject of the fourth session, where algorithms for opportunistic gossiping and characteristics of human mobility are presented.