Welcome to the 45th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (i.e., SIGCSE 2014). We invite you to explore this collection of papers, posters, workshops and other materials that capture the latest ideas, tools and pedagogy in computer science education. We also encourage you to connect with the people that generate, document and "implement" this body of knowledge, take this experience with you and share. 
 
The theme is "Leveraging Computing to Change Education," and features a number of talks and sessions focused on how the ideas and applications of computing can benefit not only those learning computer science, but learning overall. SIGCSE 2014 is co-located with a new ACM conference on Learning at Scale; it will be interesting to see what ideas and connections emerge between the two conferences, and we urge you to consider attending both. 
 
We are happy to announce the winners of the two annual SIGCSE Awards. Robert M. Panoff, Founder and Executive Director of the Shodor Education Foundation, Inc., will receive the SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education, and will provide Thursday morning's keynote address. Andrea W. Lawrence of Spelman College will accept the SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education Community and speak at our First Timer's Lunch on Thursday. (SIGCSE First Timers will receive lunch for free; more seasoned SIGCSE attendees can purchase a ticket and (a) enjoy a delicious meal and (b) mentor a First Timer). 
 
We are also quite excited about the remaining keynote presentations, which include Hadi Partovi, Founder and CEO of Code.org, and A.J. Brush of Microsoft Research, who will each present on Friday morning and Saturday lunch, respectively. 
 
Symposium statistics are presented in the following table. We thank the authors, reviewers, and Program Committee members involved in the production of this program. The schedule this year has the usual varied selection of events, including the Evening Reception on Thursday and the ACM SIGCSE Student Research Competition on Thursday afternoon. There are also some atypical offerings, such as Experience-IT, and of course the co-located Learning at Scale conference. The latest in hardware, software tools, textbooks, educational programs and research are found in the exhibit hall. 
 
SIGCSE 2014 Pre-symposium Events will occur on Wednesday and cover the following topics: 
Process Oriented Guided Inquiry Learning (POGIL) 
Integrating Professional/Ethical Issues into the CS Curriculum 
New Educators Workshop 
SIGCAS Nowadays: What is it? What should it be? 
Git & GitHub Foundations for Educators