There are many definitions of the "cloud" and many historical and contemporary synonyms and subcategories (utility computing, grid computing, Platform-as-a-Service, etc.). All of these terms and ideas point toward the same trend: A consolidation of computing, storage, and networking resources within a single, typically shared infrastructure. Naturally, with many stakeholders and users operating side-by-side in a cloud environment, the security and privacy challenges are legion. But the news isn't all bad. Cloud computing also offers opportunities to improve security through the judicious use of virtualization, consolidation of security administrator duties, and general opportunities for rethinking security engineering in a new, centralized platform. 
 
Since its inception in 2009, the Cloud Computing Security Workshop (CCSW) has become the premier venue for research on security and privacy in cloud computing. It has also produced some of the most popular and highly cited papers in the CCS family of workshops, and drawn an excellent and diverse range of invited speakers. 
 
The workshop aims to bring together researchers and practitioners in all security aspects of cloudcentric and outsourced computing. Like CCS, its parent conference, CCSW offers a program spanning a broad range of topics and disciplines, including network security, consumer privacy, virtualization, secure hardware, and cryptography---to name just a few. 
 
This year, we received 28 full-paper submissions from 15 countries and five continents. All submissions received at least three reviews, and most received four. After extensive discussions and vigorous online debate, 11 submissions were accepted to appear at the workshop. These papers cover topics such as probing cloud infrastructure, securely outsourcing computation, authenticating storage using trusted hardware, secure code execution, auditing, and various flavors of encryption. 
 
This year also continued the CCSW tradition of high-profile invited speakers, with keynotes from Dr. Jesus Luna, Research Director at the Cloud Security Alliance, Dr. Marnix Dekker, Security Expert and Information Security Officer at the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), and Slava Kavsan, Partner Security Development Manager (Azure) at Microsoft.