A Mechanically Assisted Circulatory Support device called Implantable Centrifugal Blood Pump is been developed in Federal Institute of Technology in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The equipment has original features for application as a Ventricle Assist Device (VAD) during advanced stages of Heart Failure. This pump is part of a multicenter and international study started in 2006 with objective to offer simple, affordable and reliable devices to developing countries. Previous computational fluid dynamics investigations were performed in 2008 followed by prototyping and in vitro tests. Also, previous blood tests for assessment of Hemolysis shown mean NIH results of 0.0054 ± 2.46 x 10-3 mg/100 L (at 5 L/min and 100 mmHg) in 2011. In order to precede in vivo evaluation, measurements of magnetic coupling interference and enhancements of actuator control were necessary. Methodology was based in study of two different work situations (1 and 2) studied with two different types of motor (A and B). Situation 1 is when the rotor of pump is closest to the motor and Situation 2 its opposite. Torque and mechanical power were collected with a dynamometer (80 g.cm) then plotted and compared for two situations and both motors. Since the first publication of introductory tests results in 2011, new findings were achieved and they are described in this paper. The results showed that motor A has better mechanical behavior and less influence of coupling. Results for Situation 1 showed that it is more often under magnetic coupling influence than Situation 2. The studies lead the conclusion that motor A is the best option for in vivo studies since it has less influence of magnetic coupling in both situations. New computational fluid dynamics simulations will be conducted in order to optimize geometry of pump and actuator. Received: October 17, 2016; Accepted: October 20, 2016; Published: November 03, 2016 *Corresponding author: Eduardo GP Bock, Federal Institute of Technology, Sao Paulo, Brazil, E-mail: eduardobock@gmail.com Ventricle Assist Device (VAD) during advanced stages of Heart Failure as Bridge to Transplant (BTT) and Bridge to Recovery (BTR) and Destination Therapy (DT), Figure 1. This pump is part of a multicenter and international study started in 2006 with objective to offer simple, affordable and reliable devices to developing countries. The motor controller was designed to drive the actuator (ML4426, MicroLinear, San Jose). Previous computational fluid dynamics investigations were performed in 2008 followed by prototyping and in vitro tests [3]. The design methodologies of ICBP followed the “step-bystep” procedures proposed by Nose (1998) with previous computational simulations and introductory tests. Numerical electromagnetic simulation and the Brushless Direct Current (BLDC) motor optimizations were performed with software Flux 3D followed by prototyping and in vitro tests [4]. Figure 2. Also, previous blood tests for assessment of Hemolysis shown mean NIH results of 0.0054 ± 2.46 x 10-3 mg/100 L (at 5 L/min and 100 mmHg). In order to precede in vivo test, measurements of magnetic coupling interference and enhancements of actuator control were necessary. Since the first publication of introductory tests results in 2011, new findings were achieved and they are described in this review paper [3].