Quantum computers promise computational advantages for many important problems across various application domains. Unfortunately, physical quantum devices are highly susceptible to errors that limit us from running most of these quantum applications. Quantum Error Correction (QEC) codes are required to implement Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computers (FTQC) on which computations can be performed without encountering errors. Error decoding is a critical component of quantum error correction and is responsible for transforming a set of qubit measurements generated by the QEC code, called the syndrome, into error locations and error types. For the feasibility of implementation, error decoders must not only identify errors with high accuracy, but also be fast and scalable to a large number of qubits. Unfortunately, most of the prior works on error decoding have focused primarily only on the accuracy and have relied on software implementations that are too slow to be of practical use. Furthermore, these studies only look at designing a single decoder and do not analyze the challenges involved in scaling the storage and bandwidth requirements when performing error correction in large systems with thousands of qubits.In this paper, we present AFS, an accurate, fast, and scalable decoder architecture that is designed to operate in the context of systems with hundreds of logical qubits. We present the hardware implementation of AFS, which is based on the Union Find decoding algorithm and employs a three-stage pipelined design. AFS provides orders of magnitude higher accuracy compared to recent SFQ-based hardware decoders (logical error rate of 6×10−10 for physical error rate of 10−3) and low decoding latency (42ns on average), while being robust to measurement errors introduced while extracting syndromes during the QEC cycles. We also reduce the amount of decoding hardware required to perform QEC simultaneously on all the logical qubits by co-designing the micro-architecture across multiple decoding units. Our proposed Conjoined-Decoder Architecture (CDA) reduces the storage overhead by 70% (10MB to 2.8MB). Finally, we reduce the bandwidth overheads required to transmit syndromes from the qubits to the decoders by exploiting the sparsity in the syndromes and compressing the data. Our proposed Syndrome Compression reduces the bandwidth requirement by 30x, on an average.