Welcome to the seventh ACM International Workshop on Mobility in the Evolving Internet Architecture (MobiArch'12) in Istanbul, Turkey! We are delighted to see the workshop has attracted high quality submissions from international researchers in both academia and industry. 
 
This workshop provides the opportunity to participate in the exploration of the state of the art research results on mobile Internet computing and in particular, pricing and mobile cloud research. 
 
As the number of mobile users proliferates, there is an ever increasing appetite for innovative mobile services. Service providers are often under tremendous pressure of deploying new services to users quickly and cost effectively. This requires us to critically rethink the mobile services architecture that will lay the foundation for a futuristic mobile Internet and a growing revenue base. The aim of this proposed workshop is to have an open forum discussing cutting edge research contributions with a focus on economic and incentive issues in mobile networks and technologies pertaining to mobile cloud. Mobile operators cannot compete solely on higher bandwidths supported by the underlying technology (e.g. HSPA+, LTE). Service differentiation using innovations along other dimensions like pricing, incentives, QoS, etc. is turning out to be essential to compete. As mobile technology has matured tremendously in the past five years, we are moving into the domain of sophisticated mobile applications that encompass the regular World Wide Web, mobile centric web and cloud based services. However, new challenges have to be met: 
How do we create service differentiation with mobile economic incentives in mind? 
What are some of the new "incentive-aware" mobile network architectures? 
Are there new theories and models for understanding network pricing and congestion control? 
 
 
 
To meet with these challenges, researchers from a wide range of academic fields, including theory and algorithms, data mining and machine learning, computer systems and networks, statistical physics and complex systems, economics and managerial science, etc., are all actively studying various aspects concerning mobile networks. 
 
This workshop is intended to present such an opportunity and serve as a forum to bring together people from various fields to exchange their latest research results and to discuss new ideas and directions to properly understand these networks. 
 
Highlights of the workshop include a keynote speech delivered by Lili Qiu (Associate Professor at University of Texas, Austin), world-renowned researchers in the fields of mobile computing systems including mobile pricing, incentives and mobile cloud technology and services. 
 
The technical sessions consist of presentations and discussions of the 5 accepted full papers and 2 short papers on a wide variety of issues of mobile networking and architecture research from different angles. These papers were selected from 12 submissions. The selected papers were chosen by a technical program committee (TPC) of 19 experts in various fields related to mobile pricing and cloud technology. The selection process started shortly after the submission deadline. Each paper was reviewed by at least three independent reviewers, and evaluated based on scientific novelty, technical quality, relevance to the topics, and contribution to the field.