As fabrication technology moves to 100 nm and below, profound nanometer effects become critical in developing silicon chips with hundreds of millions of transistors. Both EDA suppliers and system houses have been retooling, and new methodologies have been emerging. Will these efforts meet the challenges of nanometer silicon such as performance closure, power, reliability, manufacturability, and cost? Which aspects of nanometer design are, or are not, under control? This session will consist of a debate between two teams of distinguished representatives from EDA suppliers and system design houses. Which side has the right answers and roadmap? You and a panel of judges will decide! Nancy Nettleton Sun Microsystems, Palo Alto, CA The top issues in nanometer design that I believe will place semiconductor designs at the greatest risk are physical chip planning/integration and signal integrity. Both issues cross a broad range of design disciplines, design tools, and design project scope. Neither issue is being effectively addressed today without significant homebrew EDA development. Both issues will ultimately require systemic changes to the way we design chips; not just the way we hook tools together, but the way we plan projects and organize teams. I expect both issues will most likely be addressed by design methodologists, for two reasons: 1. Design methodologists have the most momentum on these issues today. 2. Design methodologists have a better vantage point of the entire design flow from which to make the kind of systemic changes that will be required. John Cohn IBM Microelectronics, Burlington, VT As we enter the nanometer design space, we find ourselves in an ever-tightening box between design closure issues, schedule pressure and increasing technology complexity. While many problems such as timing closure, power management and signal integrity are getting lots of attention, three problems that may not be getting the attention they deserve are: design predictability, cost, and methodology integration. Our ability to profitably build big, fast chips is based entirely on our ability to accurately predict their performance, reliability, and design effort in the face of an ever-growing list of technology challenges. In the nanometer design era these challenges includes such tough to modelling issues as device leakage, short channel effects, increased soft error sensitivity, substrate noise and increased parametric variation. In the interest of productivity, commercial tools are addressing these predictability problems by over-design and abstraction, in effect moving us away from the technology. The result is a widening performance gap between ASIC/SoC designs and more custom approaches. Chip cost is another parameter that has seen surprisingly little focus from CAD vendors. Just because our methodologies enable us to make complex systems on a single die doesn't mean that it's always economically wise to do so. In fact, many of the things we have done in the interest of productivity actually lead to lower performance, larger dies, and thus higher costs. Current tool approaches tend to obscure the intrinsic trade-off between cost, design effort and other design metrics, again moving us away from the technology. The result is an overall poor ability for the industry to optimize profitability. A final risk I see in the nanometer design space relates to the direction taken by many of the major CAD providers. In response to the deep sub-micron bogeyman, most CAD providers are attempting to soften the traditional boundaries between logical and physical design. This has given rise to a very powerful set of ‘blended’ tools offering combined synthesis, physical design and analysis. While the benefit is easier and faster design closure, the result is an overall loss in methodology flexibility due to the difficulty of mixing and matching methodology components from several sources. Combining the concerns about technology predictability and cost with the complexity of large mixed-content SoC designs absolutely argues against any 'one size fits all’ solution. A closed design system, no matter how elegant, will never contain the best of all current approaches. The solutions to these tough problems will not come from a single CAD company, silicon house or university, but rather from a synthesis of the best evolving knowledge from all of the sources. This then begs the question: “Who will best solve the nanomenter design problem ?” The answer is “Those who best understand the rules: the people that build the silicon.!.”