Emerging applications like electronic commerce and secure communications over open networks have made clear the fundamental role of public key cryptography as a unique enabler for world-wide scale security solutions. On the other hand, these solutions clearly expose the fact that the protection of private keys is a security bottleneck in these sensitive applications. This problem is further worsened in the cases where a single and unchanged private key must be kept secret for very long time (such is the case of certi cation authority keys, bank and e-cash keys, etc.). One crucial defense against exposure of private keys is o ered by threshold cryptography where the private key functions (like signatures or decryption) are distributed among several parties such that a predetermined number of parties must cooperate in order to correctly perform these operations. This protects keys from any single point of failure. An attacker needs to break into a multiplicity of locations before it can compromise the system. However, in the case of long-lived keys the attacker still has a considerable period of time (like a few years) to gradually break the system. Here we present proactive public key systems where the threshold solutions are further enhanced by periodic refreshment of the shared function in such a way that the private key (and its corresponding public key) is kept unchanged for as long as required, yet the breaking of the system requires the attacker to break into IBM Research, Haifa Scienti c Center, amir@haifa.vnet.ibm.com University of California, San Diego, markus@cs.ucsd.edu Massachusetts Institute of Technology, stasio@theory.lcs.mit.edu IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, hugo@watson.ibm.com CertCo, New York, moti@certco.com, moti@cs.columbia.edu several locations in a short period of time, e.g during one day or one week. We present such solutions for a variety of discrete log based cryptosystems including DSS and Schnorr signatures, ElGamal-like signatures and encryption, undeniable signatures, and more. We build on previous work on proactive secret sharing and threshold schemes, and develop a general methodology for the combination of many of these systems into secure proactive public key solutions.