Using a result of B.II. Neumann we extend Eilenberg's Equality Theorem, [E], to a general result which implies that the nmltiplicity equivalence problem of two (nondeterministic) multitape finite automata is decidable. As a corollary we solve a long standing open problem in automata theory, namely, the equivalence problem for multitape deterministic finite automata. One of the oldest and most falnous proble,ns in au-tomata theory is the equivalence problem for deter-ministic multitape finite automata. The notion of multitape finite automaton, or mvltitape automatoll for short, was introduced by Rabin and Scott in their classic paper of 1959, [RS]. They also showed that, unlike for ordinary (one-tape) finite autonlata, non-deterministic multitape automata are more powerfitl than the deterministic ones. This tiolds already iri the case of two tapes. As a central model of autolnata, multitape all-tomata have gained plenty of attention, llowever, many important problems have reinained ol)en, including the equivalence problem in tile deterministic case. For nondeterministic multitape automata (even for two-tape automata, whicli are nornlally called finite transducers) the equivalence problem is a standard example of an undecidable problem, see [Be]. This undecidability result was first prow~d in 1968 by Griffiths, [G]. Tile equivalence problem of multitape determin-istic automata has, as far as we know, been expected to be decidable. It seems that in tiffs context "equiv-alence" implies "structural similarity". Despite this the equivalence problem has been solved only in a few special cases. The oldest result is that of Bird from 1973,[Bi] which solves the problem for two-tape de-terministic automata. An alternative solution to the two-tape case was given in [W]. Numerous attempts, see [L], [Ki], [CK], to solve the general problem have lead to only modest success so far. The difficulty of thc equivalence problem is already manifested in the fact that the inclusion problem for multitape deter-,ninist.ic automata is easily seen to be undecidable. Our approach is as follows, htstead of determin-istic multitape automata we consider nondeterminis-tic multitape automata with nmltiplicities. Thus we ask whether two given multitape automata are mul-tiplicitly equivalent, that is, whether they accept the same n-tuples of words exactly the same number of tithes. Tile nmltiplicity equivalence clearly reduces to ordinary equivalence if the automata are deter-minisl.ic, and even when they are unambiguous. The multiplicity equiwtlence problem for finite transducers has been considered an important open problem of its own, see [Ka]. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this matertial …