Image retrieval is a field of general Computer Aided Information Retrieval. It is of great i.ntcrcst to us from two points of view. Not only iu itself, but also as a particularly sensitive application area and testbed of various models and techniques which, although applicable in other field& became much more spectacular in this one. It is especially clear for models and techniques which apply to the aspects of man-machine communication. We present same of our ideas iu this domain, based on the realization and experimentation of the prototype WAGE, built for the EXPRIM project. It deals with an image database, stored for instance on a video&k, coupled with an alphanumeric database, called the " descriptive &&abase " , which contains descriptions and possibly other howledge about the images-An attempt to make a system understand a user's need-thanks to a man-machine dialogue-may be viewed as a machine-learning probkm (Q UI.1). Wt show that it may even be considered as a mutual learnin g between man and machine. thanks to a deep iateractitity. in which man and machine share responsibility. In the prototype RlVAGE, we have brought into action machine-learnin g techniques based, on the one hand, on " examples and negative examples " and, on the other hand, on the use of a taxonomy (the thesaurus). Examples and negative examples ate given by the ustr's choices of images among the set of images the systcxn proposes following a request. Sinct image visuaAi2xttion is instant, the set of proposed images is allowed to be large and the medmd we describe is very powerful. At the kernel of the retrieving process is the means of matching between request and documents. Our first idea was to use boolean matching but after studies we have chosen vectorial matching. Actually. vectorial matching makes it possible to implement a more fkxible and wssive partial matching and is a better support for a machine-learning process for mtrieval. This papzprescnts (8 III) a mo&bation of vectorial matching associated with the machine-Ieaming process. It then describes the prototype FUVAGE (5 IV) through an object-oriented cJcscriptionofoncofthemainobpCts::thcsauru s. It closes (0 V) with an evaluation of is following an experimentation by a clocumcntalistand by users. When you are looking for documents, you rarely find a satisfying set at the first try. Why ? Fortwo& reasons. First, even if you can precisely d&be your need, the way you express it may not …