We propose two protocols for resolving conflicts on ethernet-like mediums in log-logarithmicexpected time and prove our algorithms are optimal up to an additive constant. It is difficult to second-guess the fast-changing electronics industry, but our analysis could be relevant outside the traditional interests of the ethernet literature to semaphore-like problems. I. Introduction Consider a communication medium that resembles ethernet mathematically although its domain of application may be radically different. That is, assume N nodes are connected to a medium that generates the signals of 0,1 and e in the respective cases where zero, one, and more than one nodes are broadcasting on it simultaneously. If Q of these N nodes wish to broadcast on this medium then the purpose of an ethernet protocol is to issue the signal "I" in the least expected time. It is well known [MB76] that this problem is solv-able in expected time 0(I) when Q's value is known in advance to all the participating nodes. We consider the case where Q's value is initially unknown. We propose one protocol which resolves ethernet-like conflicts for this case in time log iog N + 0(I), and an alternative protocol which runs in time 2 log log Q + O(I). (Throughout this paper log () designtes log2() , and in() is natural logarithm.) These protocols are optimal up to an additzve constant. The problem considered by us is somewhat different from the previous literature. Many articles in the previous literature assume Q's value is either initially known, or the system can reasonable estimate Q's value because it changes only gradually [Ca79, Me73, MB76, MT80, Pi79, SH80]. If Q's value is completely unknown, then the best previous algorithm is a protocol which Metcalfe and Boggs call binary exponential backoff [Me73, MB76], and which has an expected time that differs from log Q by at most an additive constant [GL83]. Greenberg [Gr83] has developed a lower bound showing Q processors need Q log N/log Q worst-case time for all Q to serially access an ether