A propositional proof system can be viewed as a non-deterministic algorithm for the (co-NP complete) unsatisfiabilit y problem. Many such proof systems, such as resolution, are rdso used as the basis for heuristics which deterministicrdly search for short proofs in the system. We discuss a propositional proof system baaed on algebraic rea soning, which we call the Groebner proof system because of a tight connection to the Groebner basis algorithm. For an appropriate measure of proof size, we show that (a degree-limited implement =ation of ) the Groebner basis algorithm finds a Groebner proof of a tautology in time polynomial in the size of the smallest such proof, In other words, urdike most proof systems, the non-deterministic algorithm can be converted to a deterministic one without loss in power. We then compare the power of the Groebner proof system to more studied systems. We show that the Groebner system polynomially simulates Horn clause resolution, quasi-polynomially simulates tree-like resolution, and weakly exponentially simulates resolution. Thus, Groebnerproofs will have better than worst-case behaviour on the same classes of inputs that resolution does. On the other hand, there are simple tautologies which have polynomialsize Groebner proofs but which require exponential-size resolution proofs. We also compare the Groebner proof system to the similar Nullstellensatz proof system introduced in [BIK+94]. We show a family of tautologies that have degree 3 (and hence polynomirdsize) Groebner refutations, but which require @(W degree Nullst ellensat z refutations. Thus, there is an exponential separation between the two systems. These results suggest that the Groebner basis algorithm might replace mmlutian M s bseie far hem.ietics far NP.emnple&e pmh *Research supported by Office of Naval Research AASERT grant #Noo14 -94 – 1 – 0997 tResemch partially done while at ICSI supported by NSERC and NSF Post-doctoral Fellowships $Rese~& Supported by NSF YI Award CCR-92-570979, SIOan Research Fellowship BR-3311, grant #93025 of the joint USCzechoslovak Science and Technology Program, and USA-Israel BSF Grant 92-00043 lems. We have done some preliminary experiments comparing [CW]’S implementation of the Groebner basis algorithm to [KS]’S implementation of the Putnam-Davis procedure for unsatisfiability. ~S]’s program is superior on the instances tested. However, the difference is small enough to hope that further optimization of the Groebner basis algorithm for unsatisfiabilit y could make it the method of choice.