This paper describes an innovative approach used to effectively introduce students to basic concepts of concurrent programming and parallel systems in an undergraduate operating systems course utilizing transputers and occam2. The reason for choosing this approach is delineated. The laboratory arrangement, hardware, software , and laboratory assignments for the course are then described. Finally, a summary of the observations made about the course and information for others wishing to use this approach are given. 2. INTRODUCTION The computer science departments at the authors! universities require all computer science majors to take a course in operating systems. Students in the operating system course are introduced to the concepts of concurrent programming and parallel systems. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material ie granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and tha title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. Louisiana The purpose of this paper is to describe: a) The efforts of the authors to design a laboratory appropriate for teaching these concepts in an undergraduate operating systems class. b) Laboratory exercises utilized by the authors to introduce students in an undergraduate operating systems course to concurrent and parallel programming concepts. 3. SIGNIFICANCE The initial concern was the development of an effective method to incorporate concurrent programming and parallel computing concepts into an undergraduate operating systems course. After reviewing the related literature it was obvious that there was no general consensus as how to achieve this goal. Therefore, a plan was conceived and developed that could be adapted at other institutions. Recommendations of the ACM Curriculum Committee on Computer Science (CCCS) (1) for operating systems and computer architecture I & II were reviewed. The course and all 317