Graphs are used effectively in representing model structures in a variety of research fields such as statistics, artificial intelligence, data mining, biological science, medicine, decision science, educational science, etc. We use different forms of graphs according to the nature of the random variables involved. For instance, arrows are used when the relationship is asymmetric as when it is causal or temporal, and undirected edges are used when the relationship is associative. When a random field is Markov with respect to a triangulated graph, i.e., a decomposable graph, which does not have a cycle of length 4 or larger, its corresponding probability model is expressed in a factorized form which facilitates computation over the probability distribution of the random field (Kemeny et al., 1976). This computational feasibility, among others, makes such a Markov random field a most favored random field. Literature is abound in regard to the properties of theMarkov randomfield which isMarkov with respect to a decomposable graph (see Chapter 12 of Whittaker (1990) and Lauritzen (1996)). We call such a random field a decomposable graphical model. There have been remarkable improvements in learning graphical models in the form of a Bayesian network (Pearl, 1986 & 1988; Heckerman et al., 1995; Friedman & Goldszmidt, 1998; Neil et al., 1999; Neapolitan, 2004) from data. This learning however is mainly instrumented by heuristic searching algorithms and the model searching is usually NP-hard [Chickering (1996)]. A good review is given in Cooper (1999) and Neopolitan (2004) on structural discovery of Bayesian or causal networks from data. Since a Bayesian network can be transformed into a decomposable graph [Lauritzen and Spiegelhalter (1988)], the method of model combination which is proposed in this paper would lead to an improvement in graphical modelling from data. This method would be useful when we don’t have data which are large enough for the number of the random variables that are involved in the data. In this situation, it is desirable to develop marginal models of manageable sizes for subsets of variables and then search for a model for the whole set of variables based on the marginal models. The main idea of the method to be proposed is similar to constraint-based learning as described in Neapolitan (2004) (also see Meek (1995) and Spirtes et al. (2000)) where we