We present randomized approximation algorithms for the MAX CUT and MAX 2SAT problems that always deliver solutions of expected value at least .87856 times the optimal value. These algorithms use a simple and elegant technique that randomly rounds the solution to a nonlinear programming relaxation. This relaxation can be interpreted both as a semidefinite program and as an eigenvalue minimization problem. We then show how to derandomize the algorithm to obtain approximation algorithms with the same performance guarantee of .87856. The previous best-known approximation algorithms for these problems had performance guarantees of ~ for MAX CUT and ~ for MAX 2SAT. A slight extension of our analysis leads to a .79607-approximation algorithm for the maximum directed cut problem, where a & approximation algorithm was the previous best-known algorithm. Our algorithm gives the first substantial progress in approximating MAX CUT in nearly twenty years, and, to the best of our knowledge, represents the first use of semidefinite programming in the design of approximation algorithms. *Address: Dept. of Mathematics, Room 2-372, M. I. T., Cambridge, MA 02139. Email: goemans@nath. mit. edu. Research supported in part by NSF contract 9302476-CCR, Air Force contract F49620-92-J-0125 and DARPA contract NOOO14-92-J1799. tAddress: School of Operations Research and Industrial En~ineering, 237 ETC 13uildin~, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853. Email: dpw@cs. cornell. edu. Research supported by an NSF Postdoctoral Fellowship. This research was conducted while the author was visiting MIT. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association of Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. David P. Williamson Cornell University