Increasingly, organizations are interconnecting computers for cooperative processing, and utilizing Database Management Systems (DBMS) to control access to their information resources. Effective design of distributed DBMS requires solutions to many complex and interrelated design issues. Data allocation and query optimization are two important distributed DBMS design issues. 
Query optimization depends on how the data are allocated, because transaction processing schedules often include operations on different sites and transmissions between them. However, the optimal method of allocating data depends on the processing strategies used for transactions. In general, researchers studying data allocation have assumed a known set of queries and processing schedules; researchers on query optimization have assumed a known data allocation. By assuming a solution to one problem and solving the other, researchers control the complexity of these two problems, but fail to integrate their solutions. 
We present an Iterative Method which provides an integrated solution for the combined data allocation and query optimization design problem. The optimization heuristic iterates between finding minimum cost data allocations and minimum cost query strategies until a local minimum for the combined problem is found. A search from convergence efficiently scans the optimization search space for lower cost solutions, and can repeatedly move beyond local optimum solutions. 
We first apply the Iterative Method within the simple query environment. Using our findings on simple queries, we extend the approach to a general query environment. In both environments, we consider a set of methods minimizing total transmission time, and another minimizing response time. 
A sophisticated problem generator is implemented, allowing tests on several independent variables. Parametric studies within a simple query environment demonstrate near-optimal performance for the Iterative Method when minimizing total transmission time and response time cost of queries. Test results in the general query environment show the Iterative Method provides significant performance improvements over alternative design methods from the literature. Furthermore, performance improvements appear to increase as environmental assumptions are relaxed, and individual design problems become more complex. These results indicate that the Iterative Method is a powerful and practical tool for design of distributed database systems.