A class of mul t ipa th mult is tage interconnection networks (MINs) is proposed in this paper. These MINs have single fault-tolerance and dynamic reroutabili ty at reduced link complexity. In addition they tolerate several multiple faults. The proposed MINs feature links between switches of the same stage, unlike other MINs, and the nmnber of links between adjacent stages is the same as in unique path networks. The paths available between a given source-destination pair have val3"ing lengths. Reliability analysis, including the mean t ime to failure, s teady state availability, and terminal reliability is given for the networks. The reliability figures are found comparable to t h e e of other, more complex mult ipath MINs. °The performance analysis of the MINs in circuit switched, random access environment shows tha t the acceptance probability is considerably increased and the average path length is close to tha t in the unique path MINs. 1. I n t r o d u c t i o n As the interest in distr ibuted and parallel computing sys tems grows, a host of communicat ion architectures have been proposed to provide el~elent interprocessor and /o r proeessor-menmry communicat ion in such systems [1]. Mult istage interconncction networks (MINs) are recognized as a cost-effective means to provide high-bm~dwidth communicat ion in multiprocessor systems, as opposed to crossbar switches which are highly elricicnt but are prohibitively expensive, with O (N 2) cost (where N is the number of input and ou tpu t terminals) and tile t imeshared buses which are inexpensive but have unacceptable throughput when the number of processors connected to them is large. SeverM MINs were proposed tha t have N ~ 2 * inputs (sources) and N outputs (destinations), and utilize log2N stages of switches, each stage consisting of ( N / 2 ) 2 × 2 crossbar switching elements, thus having complexity O ( N l o g N ) [2-7] (please see figure 1). These MINs feature simple, distributed routing control to set up a pa th from any of the input terminals to any of the output terminals, and have the capability to provide s imul taneous connections between several input -output pairs (as long as no two connections require a common link at any stage in the MIN). A basic property of these MINs is tha t there is a unique path between any input -output pair, Tiffs leads to two problems: a) poor performance and b) lack of fault-tolerance and reliability. Performance of unique-path MINs is low because of possible blocking of an input -output connection by a previously established connection and the inability to tlnd an alternate path. There is no fault-tolerance because even a single link or switch failure can disconnect pa ths between several input -output pairs. The problem of improving the fault-tolerance, reliability and performance of MINs has received considerable at tent ion recently. Several MINs tha t have multiple paths between source-destination pairs have been proposed towards tha t end [8-19,28]. Compared to the unique path networks, the multiple path networks have a *The research reported was supported in part by U.S. Army Research Office, Contract-No. DAAG-29084-I(-0044 and by Semiconductor Research Corporation, Contract No. 83-01-003. higher hardware complexity in terms of one or more of the following: (1) the number of stages of switches, (2) the number of switches per stage and/or (3) the size of tile switching elements. Rerouting or selection of alternate paths in a mul t ipa th MIN may be either static or dynamic. If a mul t ipa th MIN allows rerouting to be made only at the source or some fixed points in the network where the alternate pa ths fork, then the rerouting is static. If a faulty link or switch is encountered while sett ing up a path, it may be necessary to backtrack to the stage where a fork occurred, and a t t e m p t to set up an alternate pa th from there. The Modified Omega network [16], extra stage cube [7] and Indra [19] have only static rerouting capabilities. In mul t ipa th h a n s with dynamic rerouting, the pa ths between a given input -output pair have a fork at every stage of tile network. Thus rerouting decisions can be made by the switches at any stage, on the fly, as faulty switches or links are encountered, or as blocking occurs. Examples of dynamical ly reroutable networks include the IA_DM with half-links Ill], the F-network I14], the AON and the MDN [18], and some non-backtracking modifications of the Omega network [3] which are given in [17]. It is easier to utilize the alternate pa ths available in a dynamically reroutable MIN, frequently leading to better performance. A redundancy graph [17,19] of a MIN shows all the available pa ths between a given source destination pair. Example redundancy graphs of a statically reroutable MIN and a dynamically reroutable MIN are shown in Figure 2. Mult ipath MINs with dynamic reroutability proposed so far have a higher number of links crossing between stages compared to statically reroutable networks. For example, the F-network has 4 N links between stages, ACN mad MDN have 2N links between stages and the IA_DM network with half-links has 5N links between stages. (An exception is a nonbacktracking mul t ipa th omega net.work proposed in [17] which has only N links between adjacent stages but has the disadvantage tha t it needs a large switching elemen t in the final stage.) This may be a serious disadvantage of these MINs since implementat ions of MINs are often pin limited. At the integrated circuit level, the size of the switching element is determined by the number of pins available and not the complexity of the logic; at the printed circuit board level, the number of switches tha t can be packed into a single board is determined by the number of connectors available on the board and not the space on the board; at the wafer scale integration level, if the entire MIN is laid out on a single wafer [20, 27], most of the area is taken up by tile links crossing between stages. In this paper we propose several designs of M1Ns, called Augmented Bidelt, a Networks, that have tile following properties: 1. They are single switch fault-tolerant. 2. They have dynamic reroutability. 3. They have tile same nmuber of links crossing between adjacent stages as tile unique path MINs. 4. The size of the switches is small. 5. They have easy repairability, and hence high availability. 0149-7111/85/0000/0376501.00 © 1985 IEEE 376 Propert ies [ through 4 m'e the result of providing additional links between switches of the same stage of a MIN, or by connecting switches in the same stage of two or more MINs. There are many possible ways of providing these additional links, resulting in different designs of multiple path M1Ns. A particular method of providing these connections leads to tolerance of not only single switch faults but also faults in a group of switches, which are connected in loops. The connection schemes are such tha t the removal of such loops of switches, subject to certain constraints, does not have to interrupt the operation of the MIN. Thus such loops of switches could be implemented as rcplaceablc units, and repairing a fault would involve replacing the loop containing the faulty switch by a new one. Easy rcpairability and high availability are a consequence of tiffs property. Prel iminary concepts and notat ion tha t is used throughout tile paper is developed in Section 2. The construction procedure for the proposed MINs, physical design issues, and severM possible generalizations and variations of the designs are discussed in Section 3. Rout ing and fault-tolerance properties are explained in Section 4. Among the proposed MINs, the one with the smallest number of switches (two) in a loop, appears to have useful features with respect to physical design, fault-tolerance, convenience of repair and maintenance. This particular MIN is singled out for detailed analysis. Section 5 gives the reliability analysis, including est imation of mean time to failure under switch and link fault models, terminal rcfiability analysis, and availability analysis. The circuit switching environment performance analysis, given in Section 6, includes cMculation of the probability of acceptance of requests as well as the In'obability distribution of the pa th length, which varies with the number of links within the same stage tha t are used in establishing a path. Conluding remarks are given in Section 7.