Planning Under Uncertainty Planning under uncertainty is one of the most general and hardest problems considered in the area [Rintanen 2004]. Uncertainty can take the form of incomplete information, wrong information, multiple action outcomes, and varying action durations. My doctoral thesis concentrates on planning with incomplete knowledge and multiple action outcomes, specifically conformant planning and contingent planning. Conformant planning [Goldman and Boddy 1996] is a problem of finding sequences of actions for the agent to act, with no observations, to achieve the goal from any possible initial state of the world in presence of incomplete initial information. Conformant planning is useful when observations are expensive, dangerous, and/or impossible. Conformant planning has attracted the attention of several researchers. A number of efficient and sophisticated conformant planners have been developed CFF [Brafman and Hoffmann, 2004], POND [Bryce et al., 2006], t0 [Palacios and Geffner, 2007], and CPA [Tran et al., 2009]. Contingent planning is a more general problem of conformant planning that allows non-deterministic actions and observation of some properties of the world, in addition to incomplete information. The contingent plan allows the agent to act, at the execution time, conditionally depending on the observed values; and guarantees to achieve the goal no matter what the actual initial world the agent starts from and which actual action outcomes occur. Contingent planning is more practical and harder, as opposed to conformant planning. Many work have been done on contingent planning resulting in various contingent planner. Among the most competitive contingent planners are contingent-FF [Hoffmann and Brafman, 2005], POND, and CLG [Albore et al., 2009]. Previous Approaches To deal with incomplete information about the world, the notion of belief state has been introduced—defined as a set of possible states. This notion is convenient for capturing the semantic of incomplete information and uncertain action effects and for defining a transition function between belief states. The use of this representation in the implementation of a planner, however, is inefficient and impractical due to its exponential size. To address this, numerous research work have been done with proposals of different approaches. Significant progress can be observed by the introduction of variety of planning systems that can solve problems of different size at different level of hardness, usually using the approach that encodes the planning problem as a search problem in the belief state space. However, the scalability of these planners, though are among the best planning systems in the literature, is still modest, mostly due to disadvantages of the methods they use to represent belief states. For example, the representation using binary decision diagrams (BDDs) [Bryant, 1992], used in POND, is usually very large and its size is sensitive to the order of the variables. Moreover, computing successor belief states in BDDs representation requires generation of intermediate formulae of exponential size. In contrast, the method used in CFF and contingent-FF, that encodes belief states implicitly through the action sequences leading to them from the initial belief state, needs a little space but incurs an excessive amount of repeated computation. Furthermore, checking whether a proposition holds after the execution of an action sequence is exponentially harder, compared with the case of the execution of one action, in general. t0 and CLG transform the problem into a search problem in the state space, whose literals represent the beliefs over the original problem. This approach is fairly efficient as t0 and CLG outperforms the others in a set of benchmarks. However, the number of literals in the translated problem can be exponential in the number of unknown literals in the original problem, making the state space extremely large and preventing the planners to scale up. Finally, the method that approximates belief states used in CPA is efficient in several problems. Yet the size of the approximated formulae, if satisfies the complete condition, explodes in many other problems. Motivation and Approaches of this Work This work provides a systematic methodology for dealing with planning under uncertainty, focusing on the representation of belief states that can be used in a forward search paradigm in the belief space for solutions. A good representation should be compact so that a planner implementing it can perform and scale up well as the larger the formulae, the more the computation and the more the memory consumption (i.e., the slower the system and the less the scalability). On the other hand, it should also have properties that allow for definition of an efficient transition function for computing successor belief states, e.g., checking satisfaction in a DNF formula is easy. Defining a direct complete transition