Motivated by applications in online marketplaces, we propose a growth model of platforms operating as market markers in two-sided matching markets, such as between service providers and customers. The growth of these platforms, often dubbed the "chicken and egg dilemma" in the literature, poses an inherent challenge; service providers find value in joining the platform due to the presence of customers, while customers are drawn to the platform by the availability of diverse services. This endogenous network effect, created by the two sides of the market, influences the growth trajectory and propels emerging platforms towards "get big fast" strategies to rapidly achieve critical mass on both sides. While an extensive literature in Economics, Industrial Organization, and more recently Operations has investigated the formation of two-sided platforms, one aspect that has been overlooked is the dynamic and stochastic nature of their growth process. Much of the existing literature characterizes market equilibria based on the assumption that all agents are initially present in the market and join the platform instantaneously driven by network effects that are instantly achieved in equilibrium. To address this limitation, we model the platform as a Markovian system, with its state space st ∈ ℕ defined by the number of active service providers at time t ≥ 0, initially starting from s0 = 0. Service providers join the platform according to a Poisson process with intensity μ(st), which is indirectly influenced by the compensation offered by the platform. Specifically, we assume that an arriving service provider joins the platform if they can earn a net-discounted expected compensation at least equal to an outside option υ. Additionally, active service providers are free to leave the platform at any time if their expectation of future payoffs falls below the threshold υ. In other words, the incentives for the service providers are based on the commitment the platform makes to them in the form of the compensation scheme υ. Customers, on the other hand, are transitory and arrive following a Poisson process with state-dependent intensity λ(st), a non-decreasing function of st that captures consumers' preferences for larger platforms. Each customer matched to a service provider pays a fixed fee p for the service. Under some mild conditions on the supply and demand functions, μ(·) and λ(·) respectively, we show that there are upper bounds on how fast and large the platform can grow. We also show that simple compensation rules, such as uniform payments, fail to achieve this optimal expansion. Instead, an optimal compensation mechanism must take into account the "seniority" of each individual active server, as measured by the time they joined the platform. The full version of this paper is available at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5201117