Clock auctions are a natural class of simple auction mechanisms, with numerous desirable properties including obvious strategyproofness, credibility, and unconditional winner privacy. These properties make clock auctions an ideal solution for real-world allocation problems, such as radio spectrum (re)allocation. Accordingly, significant effort has been made in understanding the performance (and in particular, economic efficiency) of clock auctions. In this paper, we make progress along this direction on multiple fronts. Computationally, we investigate two natural problems: implementation and optimization. The former asks to find a clock auction protocol that implements a particular input allocation function whenever there exists one, and declare that this is impossible otherwise; the latter asks to find a clock auction protocol that maximizes social welfare among all clock auction protocols on a particular input prior distribution. We give an efficient algorithm for the implementation problem, and show that the optimization problem is NP-complete. To our knowledge, these are the first results regarding the computational complexity of clock auctions. En route to these results, we develop a complete characterization of allocation functions that can be implemented using clock auctions, which may be of independent interest. Information-theoretically, we present a framework connecting the economic efficiency of clock auctions to a much cleaner problem that we call "upper tail extraction". In particular, the inexistence of constant-factor clock auctions for upper tail extraction would immediately imply a super-constant efficiency gap for clock auctions. On the other hand, the existence of constant-factor clock auctions for upper tail extraction would imply approximate efficiency in an important class of instances, strongly suggesting approximate efficiency in general. We then construct constant-factor clock auctions for upper tail extraction in the special case with iid agents, which, through our framework, implies approximate efficiency of clock auctions with independent groups of agents that are each homogeneous. This removes the immediate technical obstacle to unconditional approximate efficiency identified in prior work, and showcases the power of our framework.