The delegated choice problem, introduced by Armstrong and Vickers (ECTA'10), involves a principal delegating a decision-making of selecting an element among n to an agent with potentially misaligned utility. To mitigate the agent's selfish behavior, the principal commits to acceptable sets and utilities in advance. Kleinberg and Kleinberg (EC'18) observed a novel connection to prophet inequality, a central problem in optimal stopping theory, stating that the delegated choice problem is equivalent to a version of prophet inequality with oblivious stopping rules in the single choice setting. This amplifies the significance of prophet inequality, originally cemented by its fruitful connection to numerous problems including posted pricing in the online auction for digital goods/multi-dimensional mechanisms, stochastic optimization, secretary problem, and Pandora's box. A fundamental question in this context is, whether the connection between prophet inequality and delegated choice follows the same path even under arbitrary combinatorial constraints. We answer this question negatively by providing the first provable separation of prophet inequality and delegated choice for downward-closed constraints. Namely, we obtain a 0.1098-approximate mechanism for the delegated choice under downward-closed constraint, which implies a strict separation between the two problems since prophet inequality does not allow constant approximation under downward-closed constraint as shown by Rubinstein (STOC'16). Up to matroid constraint, however, we show that the connection carries over, which implies several constant approximate mechanisms for various matroid constraints. We complement this result by proving that matroid structure is even necessary to maintain such connection, thereby exactly characterizing the regime for such correspondence. We finally examine the power of knowing the agent's utility distribution, which corresponds to order-hinted algorithms that know the distribution of the arrival order of elements in prophet inequality. Interestingly, we prove that order-hinted non-adaptive algorithms (and induced delegation mechanisms) are not strictly better than order-oblivious non-adaptive algorithms (and induced delegation mechanisms), i.e., the gain from knowing the elements' arrival distributions is negligible.