We study resale platforms, an emerging type of online marketplaces in developing countries. Resale platforms are designed for individuals (resellers) to sell products to others as opposed to buying for themselves, enabling them to supplement their income by earning a margin on the transactions they generate. One challenge these platforms face is that competition among resellers may emerge as more of them join the platform, as their social circles increasingly overlap. Our paper investigates the mechanisms by which competition affects resellers and the role of the platform's design in shaping this relationship. We combine analytical modeling with empirical analysis. Our model captures the resellers' interactions with the platform (in searching for products to sell) and with consumers (in offering these products for purchase); the level of competition depends on the extent to which consumers receive offers from multiple resellers. We find that as competition intensifies, resellers not only lower their margins but also reduce the effort they exert in searching for products to sell. We empirically validate these equilibrium predictions using data from a major platform: as competition increases, resellers earn lower margins and reduce the number of products they view while browsing on the app, which we interpret as lower search effort. Finally, we explore two platform interventions that aim to benefit resellers: centralizing margin decisions (a practice adopted by several platforms) and optimizing its product ranking algorithm. Despite constraining their choices, centralization tends to benefit resellers to a greater extent as it mitigates the competitive pressure on margins, and shifts resellers to compete only in terms of the selection of products they offer. Our work offers insights to guide key design choices for resale platforms, aiming to foster sustainable online entrepreneurship in developing economies. The full paper is available at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4753023