We study a many-to-one assignment problem, where a set of applicants need to be assigned to a set of schools with limited seats. We formulate distributional objectives by a set of standard axioms. Axiom 1 has two parts. First, the number of applicants of each type at each school should be less than the corresponding quota. Second, whenever the number of applicants of a given type assigned to a school is less than the corresponding reserve, then it should be that no other applicant of that type prefers the school to their own assignment. Axiom 2 requires that whenever a school has available seats, it should be that there is no applicant that prefers that school to their own assignment. Finally, we say that an applicant a violates the priority of another applicant b at school s, if b prefers s to their own assignment, and b has a higher priority at that school than a. In this case, the triplet (a, b, s) is called a priority violation instance. Axiom 3 requires that there are no priority violation instances including two applicants of the same type. We restrict attention to assignments that satisfy Axioms 1–3. Within this class, we want to minimize priority violations. We adopt a set-inclusion notion of comparing the priority violations across the assignment. Namely, we say that an assignment μ priority violations dominates another assignment μ′, if the set of priority violation instances of μ is a proper subset of the set of priority violation instances of μ′. We say that μ is priority violations minimal in a class of assignments, if μ belongs to the class, and no assignment in the class priority violations dominates μ. We show that the assignment produced by the celebrated deferred acceptance algorithm coupled with a particular reserves- and quotas-based choice rule, called the regular rule, is constrained optimal in the following sense: the assignment is either priority violations minimal in the class of assignment satisfying Axioms 1–3, or it Pareto dominates any other assignment in this class that priority violations dominates it. In other word, given the outcome of the algorithm, it is impossible to further reduce priority violation instances, without creating new ones, or unambiguously reducing welfare for applicants. We show that the algorithm is the unique one with this property, that also satisfies strategy-proofness and monotonicity axioms. Thus, our paper provides a one of a kind theoretical justification for both deferred acceptance and the reserves and quotas-based choice rules in allocation problems with distributional objectives. For other natural objectives, such as minimizing the number of priority violation instances, we find that there are no polynomial time algorithms (unless P=NP), or a strategy-proof algorithms, that are constrained optimal. A full version of this paper can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5284396