The structure of network externalities influences platform competition and can determine whether a two-sided market is winner-takes-all or highly contestable. Yet, because of analytical challenges, relatively little is known about these structures in different markets, raising several research questions: How do network externalities arise in specific markets? What is the structure of network externalities? How does the structure influence the competition between two-sided platforms? What conditions lead to a monopoly or an oligopoly outcome, enabling or discouraging entry? We address these questions in the context of ride-hailing platforms, identifying the externalities that arise from congestion. We propose a model of platform competition in ride-hailing. The market consists of riders and drivers whose utilities are affected by the congestion within the platforms. Riders are sensitive to price and delay; drivers value high wages and utilization. We first find representations of congestion, which serve as micro-foundations for platform competition. Then, we establish general conditions for the existence and uniqueness of the equilibrium, offering insights into the markets that can lead to a monopolistic or an oligopolistic outcome. Moreover, we analyze entry when incumbents cannot set their prices and wages irreversibly. Finally, we examine how changing market conditions affect equilibrium outcomes using comparative statics. Our results demonstrate that ride-hailing platforms benefit from economies of scale, becoming more efficient as they attract more riders and drivers. This could lead to winner-takes-all scenarios in markets with low demand or attractive outside options. However, service variability arising from differing distances between riders and drivers introduces differentiation, enabling multiple platforms to coexist in suitable markets. In such cases, entrants can leverage service variability to enter, potentially driving profits to zero and making the market highly contestable. The results challenge conventional wisdom, suggesting that having a large network may no longer guarantee survival and that platforms need credible commitment mechanisms to retain users. We discuss the reasons behind, shedding light on potential strategies that platform managers can follow while avoiding the ones that can inadvertently harm competition. The full version can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5119391