We study the design of procurement contracts in environments where the buyer faces uncertainty over the product's demand and the seller's cost. The buyer has a conjecture (model) but does not fully trust it. She first identifies all worst-case optimal contracts, which deliver the largest payoff guarantee over a set of plausible demand and cost functions. She then selects the contract that maximizes the expected payoff (under her model) over such a restricted set. We term contracts surviving this two-step procedure as robustly optimal contracts. In usual screening problems, just like the one considered here, there are many worst-case optimal contracts, and our approach offers a selection criterion. We show that in every robustly optimal contract, there is an increase in the quantity procured from the least efficient sellers and a decrease in the quantity procured from the sellers with an intermediate cost (relative to the optimal contract in the absence of any model uncertainty). Downward distortions in output in the absence of model uncertainty serve to reduce rents for more efficient types. The value of such distortions is significantly reduced when the buyer is concerned that her model could be wrong. As a result, robustness calls for an upward revision of the quantity procured from the least efficient types. Hence, contrary to what emerges under the familiar benchmark in the absence of model uncertainty, the robustly optimal contract features efficiency both at the top and the bottom of the modeled cost distribution. For the intermediate costs, further downward distortion is needed to avoid losses from over-procurement if nature chooses the lowest inverse demand. We apply our results to monopoly regulation. The procurement mechanisms can be interpreted as quantity regulation. Alternatively, there is price regulation, where the government sets the price for the monopolist's goods and transfers subsidies conditional on the realized demand. The price regulation appears superior to the quantity regulation as the quantity produced under the price regulation is responsive to the realized demand. However, as we show, robustness concerns introduce a non-trivial trade-off between price and quantity regulation. Intuitively, worst-case optimality necessitates a price cap that safeguards consumer surplus in case demand turns out to be the lowest. But, at the same time, this price cap leads to overproduction if the realized demand turns out to be the conjectured one. We also identify conditions under which price regulation is superior to quantity regulation. Full paper: https://faculty.wcas.northwestern.edu/apa522/robust-procurement.pdf