We study the benefits of a one-shot price experiment for a seller who has limited information about customer valuations of a product. The seller only knows the exact purchase probability associated with a single historical price and aims to maximize the worst-case revenue ratio compared to an oracle with complete knowledge of the value distribution. The seller conducts a one-shot price experiment by first choosing an experiment price and then setting a final price based on the realized purchase probabilities from both the historical and experimental prices. We assume that the customer's virtual value function is non-decreasing. Our main findings are threefold: Optimal Experiment Price and Policy Structure: We analytically characterize the optimal distributionally robust experiment price and provide its performance guarantee for any historical purchase probability. Moreover, we show that the optimal one-shot price experiment policy follows a keep-or-adjust structure: the seller uses a predetermined final price if the experiment price does not yield higher profits, and otherwise adjusts the final price based on the experiment's outcome. We use this keep-or-adjust structure, along with novel geometric arguments, to address the technical challenges of the problem. Markup vs. Markdown Experimentation: We determine when it is optimal for the firm to experiment with a higher (markup) or lower (markdown) price than the historical price. When the purchase probability at the historical price is above a threshold—surprisingly low at approximately 29.5%—the firm should experiment with a markup price. Otherwise, it should use a markdown price. The intuition is that if the markup experiment fails to improve profits, the firm can still fall back to a lower final price than the historical one. Bimodal Value of Experimentation: We prove that as the historical purchase probability increases from 0 to 1, the value of conducting a one-shot price experiment compared to not experimenting is bimodal: it first increases, then decreases, then increases again, and finally decreases. Finally, we extend the model to settings where the experiment may be noisy and to cases where the seller has access to multiple initial data points. In the latter case, we show that the seller needs to use at most five specific initial data pairs to compute the optimal experimental and final prices. A full version of this paper is available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=4899852.