Screening settings, in which a profit-maximizing principal faces a privately-informed agent, have been studied extensively in the economics literature. A leading example is second-degree price discrimination with alternatives that correspond to different quantities or qualities of a product. In this case, it is natural to order the alternatives from worst (lowest quantity/quality) to best (highest quantity/quality) and to assume that the agent's private information concerns his marginal willingness to pay (for quantity/quality). This results in "increasing differences," which states that for any pair of alternatives, higher types are willing to pay more than lower types in order to obtain the better alternative instead of the worse one. Many natural settings, however, involve alternatives and types that are not naturally ordered from "best" to "worst" or from "low" to "high." To analyze such settings, we investigate a screening model in which the agent has one of only two possible types, but his (quasi-linear) utility from the various alternatives is otherwise unrestricted. In particular, we do not assume that the alternatives or the types are ordered in a particular way, so neither type is necessarily "high" or "low." Our main results provide a complete, geometric characterization of the optimal menus. The key to the characterization is our notion of an uncontested type. A type is uncontested if his valuation for his efficient alternative weakly exceeds the other type's valuation for this alternative. Otherwise, the type is contested. We show that at least one of the types is uncontested. So, if the other type is contested, an optimal menu is pinned down by the contested type's alternative. Unlike in the standard settings with increasing differences, where the only possible distortion in the low type's allocation is a "downward" distortion, in our setting there may be many possible directions for the distortion in the contested type's allocation, and our characterization identifies the optimal distortion. We illustrate the potential usefulness of our results with two applications. The first application combines vertical and horizontal product differentiation. Each type and product is represented by a size and a horizontal location, and the value of a type for a product is the dot product of the corresponding vectors. The second application is bundling multiple products. Each type has a valuation for each product, and a type's valuation for a bundle is the sum of the type's valuations for the products in the bundle. The full version of the paper can be accessed here: https://nimahaghpanah.com/pdfs/twotypes.pdf