We study a two-dimensional information design problem in a duopoly with vertical differentiation. A third-party designer, literal or metaphorical, designs a public joint signal structure to disclose information about product quality. Upon observing the quality signal, the firms compete by simultaneously setting prices. Consumers with heterogeneous preferences about quality choose one of the two products to purchase based on the publicly observed quality signal and the prices set by the firms. Regardless of whether the market is fully covered by the firms, we show that to maximize the joint profits of the industry, one should only disclose the ranking of the products' qualities. This policy mitigates price competition by amplifying perceived differentiation. The ranking-only policy also maximizes the (unweighted) total surplus as it yields assortative matching between consumer type and product quality. In contrast, to maximize consumer surplus, one should not reveal the quality ranking of the products, including no dislcosure at all, which intensifies price competition to the largest extent. In addition to the "ranking versus no-ranking" results, we further characterize the optimal policy when the designer's objective is an arbitrary weighted sum of duopoly profits and consumer surplus, under both covered and uncovered specifications. When the market is always covered, the fixed-market-share effect simplifies the problem. Whenever the Pareto weight on consumer surplus exceeds a certain cutoff, the no-ranking policy is optimal. Otherwise, the ranking-only policy is optimal. When the market is uncovered, the equilibrium market shares are affected by the signal realization. As a consequence, an additional market share effect is introduced, leading to a richer but still relatively simple pattern of the optimal quality disclosure policy. In particular, the Pareto weight can be partitioned into five regions. Similar to the covered case, ranking-only is optimal when the weight on consumer surplus is small and no-ranking is optimal when the weight is large. Unlike the covered case, for interior weights the optimal solution could be full revelation, a combination of full revelation and the ranking-only policy, or a combination of full revelation and the no-ranking policy.