We consider a model with three economic agents: a certifier, a sender and a receiver (e.g., test provider, student and school). The sender has imperfect private information about the state of the world (e.g., student's ability), assumed to be binary. The certifier offers a menu of tests with different prices, from which the sender chooses her preferred option. The test generates a certificate which is informative about the state and therefore guides the receiver's action (e.g., admission decision), also assumed to be binary. The sender would like the receiver to always take the high action, but the receiver would only like to do so if the state is high. The test may provide information to the receiver through two channels. The first channel is informativeness of actual tests. Second, selection of different types into different tests conveys information, as the receiver updates her belief about the state based on which test the sender chooses. The main theorem identifies the revenue-maximizing menu. First, it has a monotone structure such that sender types are partitioned into convex intervals and those who belong to a common group purchase a common test. Second, the menu exhibits the cutoff structure that sender purchases a test if and only if her belief is above a lower threshold, and she buys a Kamenica-Gentzkow style test if her belief exceeds an upper threshold. Third, we observe that all tests in the menu are equally informative (in certain sense), and those who purchase a test are indifferent among all options in the menu. Finally, the receiver obtains zero surplus. The optimality of this structure depends on how the sender's test selection reveals additional information to the receiver. We show that if the certifier could conceal which test the sender selects, the optimal menu could look very different. Under a certain condition on the distribution of the sender's belief, it would become optimal to segment the market by offering two tests with heterogeneous informativeness: a fully informative, cheaper test sold to high sender types and an uninformative, more expensive test chosen by middle sender types. The full paper is available at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5062549