In recent years, crowdsourcing has been gaining a lot of popularity due to its capability of solving various computer-hard tasks including, image recognition [16], entity resolution [15], and sentiment analysis [18]. This triggers the existence of several crowdsourcing platforms, e.g., Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) [11] and Upwork [14]. On such platforms, requesters submit a task with a budget to pay to workers (i.e., the crowd) to solve the task. While many tasks can be solved by crowdsourcing efficiently and accurately, e.g., a survey; may other tasks are not fit to be solved by the general crowd as it requires some expertise of the workers in order to provide the accurate result. We call these tasks context-aware tasks as they require the workers to be familiar with the context of the tasks in order to provide high-quality answers. An example of a context-aware task is a task to find a location of a given object, often referred as geotagging, which has a context of location. Asking workers who are located close to the location of the object will result in a much better accuracy as people know their nearby area better. To confirm this, we run an MTurk experiment by asking the workers to find the location of images that we already know their locations. By ignoring the location context of the task, we recruit workers randomly, thus, results in a low accuracy as shown by Random in Table 1. By considering the location context, we recruit workers located at the same state of each image and are able to receive a much higher accuracy as shown by Expert. The biggest challenge faced by existing crowdsourcing frameworks is that the context of a task is often unavailable. Had we know the context of the task in advance, it would have been easy to get the corresponding workers from their profiles. In the geolocation example, it is easy to find workers who live nearby the location of the images if we know the location of the images in advance. Furthermore, each context has different resolution which by asking workers who are familiar with a finer-grained context of the