It is our great pleasure to welcome you to SIGMETRICS/Performance 2009. SIGMETRICS is the flagship conference of the ACM special interest group for the computer systems performance evaluation community. Performance is the flagship conference of the IFIP working group on performance modeling and analysis. Every three years, the two conferences are held jointly, and this is the eleventh joint conference. 
 
This year, we will continue with several of the innovations introduced at last year's SIGMETRICS program. The main conference will again be a full three days, featuring 27 papers, 21 posters, and three invited talks from computer science luminaries, both academic and industrial. We will also reprise the demo competition and student thesis panel that were so well received last year. We are introducing an industrial information seminar, to provide an opportunity for students and academics to hear from representatives in industrial research about performance-related projects and their impact on deployed products and services. 
 
Supplementing the main conference are four interesting workshops, ranging from the venerable to the avant-garde. The workshop on MAthematical performance Modeling and Analysis (MAMA) continues its eleventh year as a forum for talks on early research in the more mathematical areas of computer performance analysis. The workshop on Hot Topics in Metrics (HotMetrics), which had a stellar inauguration last year, will reprise its role in helping to identify "big" and "hard" problems in performance evaluation and to develop innovative approaches to solving them. We also introduce two new workshops this year: GreenMetrics will explore how improvements to or new uses of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) can contribute towards efforts to minimize global climate change, a problem of increasing importance in modern society. The Learning for Networking workshop will investigate the use of machine learning techniques to tackle the increasingly complex architecture and control features in telecommunications and computer networks. 
 
This year also features a splendid series of tutorials, on topics ranging from social networks to data-center networks, from data-flow programming to packet-flow configuration, and from internet measurement to internet service construction.