It is our pleasure to welcome you to Newport, Rhode Island, USA and to UIST 2007, the Twentieth Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology. The field has come a long way since our first conference twenty years ago, but UIST continues to be the premier forum for innovations in the software and technology of human-computer interfaces. Sponsored by ACM's special interest groups on computer-human interaction (SIGCHI) and computer graphics (SIGGRAPH), UIST brings together researchers and practitioners from diverse areas that include traditional graphical & web user interfaces, tangible & ubiquitous computing, virtual & augmented reality, multimedia, new input & output devices, and CSCW. The intimate size, the single track, and comfortable surroundings make this symposium an ideal opportunity to exchange research results and implementation experiences. 
 
The call for papers this year attracted a record 195 submissions (129 full papers and 66 tech notes), and the program committee accepted 24 full papers and 9 tech notes covering a wide range of topics. The technical program also includes posters, demos, and the doctoral symposium. In addition, this year's program includes an invited panel on Evaluating User Interface Systems Research anchored by an invited paper by Dan Olsen. We are pleased to have two invited keynotes: David Woods from the Ohio State University on Measuring How Design Changes Cognition at Work, and Jeremy Wolfe from Harvard Medical School on Capturing the User's Attention: Insights from the Study of Human Vision. 
 
In celebration of UIST's 20th Anniversary, we will unveil an interactive visualization of the past twenty years of UIST contributions and a commemorative video, and we have included the complete archive of UIST proceedings on the conference DVD. The cover of this year's proceedings features a mosaic created by designer Chris Harrison that is a composite of at least one image from every paper published in the first 20 years of UIST.