Current personalized neural head avatars face a trade-off: lightweight models lack detail and realism, while high-quality, animatable avatars require significant computational resources, making them unsuitable for commodity devices. To address this gap, we introduce Gaussian Eigen Models (GEM), which provide high-quality, lightweight, and easily controllable head avatars. GEM utilizes 3D Gaussian primitives for representing the appearance combined with Gaussian splatting for rendering. Building on the success of mesh-based 3D morphable face models (3DMM), we define GEM as an ensemble of linear eigen-bases for representing the head appearance of a specific subject. In particular, we construct linear bases to represent the position, scale, rotation, and opacity of the 3D Gaussians. This allows us to efficiently generate Gaussian primitives of a specific head shape by a linear combination of the basis vectors, only requiring a low-dimensional parameter vector that contains the respective coefficients. We propose to construct these linear bases (GEM) by distilling high-quality compute-intense CNN-based Gaussian avatar models that can generate expression-dependent appearance changes like wrinkles. These high-quality models are trained on multi-view videos of a subject and are dis tilled using a series of principle component analyses.Once we have obtained the bases that represent the animatable appearance space of a specific human, we learn a regressor that takes a single RGB image as input and predicts the low-dimensional parameter vector that corresponds to the shown facial expression. We demonstrate that this regressor can be trained such that it effectively supports self- and cross-person reenactment from monocular videos without requiring prior mesh-based tracking. In a series of experiments, we compare GEM’s self-reenactment and cross-person reenactment results to state-of-the-art 3D avatar methods, demonstrating GEM’s higher visual quality and better generalization to new expressions. As our distilled linear model is highly efficient in generating novel animation states, we also show a real-time demo of GEMs driven by monocular webcam videos. The code and model will be released for research purposes.