It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the Second International Workshop on the Efficiency ofModernData Centers (EMDC). Today, data centers have become instrumental for powering software applications and indispensable for data communication. Nonetheless, there exists major research challenges in the day-to-day operations of data centers such as performance, power efficiency, availability, scalability, security among many others. As the number of Internet of Things (IoT) devices proliferates, data center capabilities will need to transcend basic management operations. That is, traditional management capabilities for CPU, memory, input/output and network operations need to be replaced with more advanced IoT-based management capabilities to include items such as temperature sensors, fan speed sensors, power sensors, moisture sensors among many others. Hence, managing large volumes of collected data at high velocities requires efficient distributed training of deep learning models and inference optimization within data centers. Many of the existing modern data centers continuously collect and aggregate a wide range of telemetry data in order to avoid critical downtimes. For example, as heat load of modern data centers increases, the ability to monitor and manage ambient temperature becomes more and more vital for the availability, reliability, serviceability, safety, manageability and scalability of these mission-critical assets. However, current management capabilities also contribute to the consumption of network bandwidth, computational processing power and data storage. Therefore, there is an apparent need for more rigorous architectures and design methods for enhancing the efficiency of modern data centers, more sophisticated design and simulation tools, efficient distributed deep learning models, reliable equipment and software systems benchmarks, accurate performance evaluation methods, among many others. The EMDC workshop aims to provide researchers and practitioners a venue to discuss the current state of today’s modern data centers. The EMDC workshop’s ambition is to help in shaping a community of interest on the existing research opportunities and