The 3rd International Workshop on Cross-lingual Event-centric Open Analytics (CLEOPATRA 2022) is co-located with The Web Conference (WWW) and held on the 25th of April, 20221. Modern society faces an unprecedented number of events that impact countries, communities and economies around the globe across language, country and community borders. Recent examples include sudden or unexpected events such as terrorist attacks and political shake-ups such as Brexit, events related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as well as longer ongoing and evolving topics such as the migration crisis in Europe that regularly spawn events of global importance affecting local communities. These developments result in a vast amount of event-centric, multilingual information available from heterogeneous sources on the Web, on the Web of Data, within Knowledge Graphs, in social media, inside Web archives and in news sources. Such event-centric information differs across sources, languages and communities, potentially reflecting community-specific aspects, opinions, sentiments and bias. The theme of the workshop includes a variety of interdisciplinary challenges related to analysis, interaction with and interpretation of vast amounts of event-centric textual, semantic and visual information in multiple languages originating from different communities. The goal of the interdisciplinary CLEOPATRA workshop is to bring together researchers and practitioners from the fields of Semantic Web, the Web, NLP, IR, Human Computation, Visual Analytics and Digital Humanities to discuss and evaluate methods and solutions for effective and efficient analytics of event-centric multilingual information spread across heterogeneous sources. This will support the delivery of analytical results in ways meaningful to users, helping them to cross language barriers and better understand event representations and their context in other languages. The workshop features advanced methods for extracting event-centric information, multi-modal geo-localisation, cross-lingual sentiment detection and causality detection, NLP tools for under-resourced languages and applications of these methods to digital humanities research. Furthermore, the workshop introduces selected tools developed by researchers working in the CLEOPATRA ITN - a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network. We would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the authors and presenters for their inspiring contributions to the workshop. Our sincere thanks are due to the program committee members for reviewing the submissions and ensuring the high quality of our workshop program. We also thank Manolis Koubarakis for his keynote talk in the workshop. We are also very grateful to the organisers of The Web Conference 2022, and particularly the Workshops Chairs, Nathalie Hernandez and Preslav Nakov, for their support with the workshop organisation.