The ubiquity of disaggregated storage in cloud computing has led to a nascent technique for fault tolerance: instead of utilizing application-level replication, newly-launched backup instances recover application state from disaggregated storage (REDS) after a primary’s failure. Attractively, REDS provides fault tolerance at a much lower cost than traditional replication schemes, wherein at least two instances are running. Failover in REDS is slow, however, because it sequentially ﬁrst detects primary failure and only then starts recovery on a backup. We propose speculative recovery to accelerate failover and thus increase the availability of applications using REDS. Instead of proceeding with failover sequentially, speculative recovery safely and efﬁciently parallelizes detecting primary failure and running recovery on a backup, by employing our new super and collapse primitives for disaggregated storage. Our implementation and evaluation of speculative recovery demonstrate that it considerably reduces failover time. Abstract The artifact provides a framework for evaluating SpecREDS as shown in the evaluation section of the paper. The artifact includes the source code of SpecREDS’s disaggregated storage layer (based on Ceph), conﬁguration ﬁles and pre-captured application recovery traces, and handy scripts for instrumenting the experiments. Readers can easily use this artifact to reproduce ﬁgures shown in the paper. There are two main claims from the paper that the artifact seeks to validate: (1) the disk-level I/O performance of super , our novel design and implementation of light-weight, fast disk clones, is close to that of a regular, non-COW disk, while signiﬁcantly outperforming Ceph’s existing clone implementation rbd-clone ; (2) SpecREDS using super can bring practical end-to-end application availability improvement over REDS in various failover scenarios. Speciﬁcally, the paper uses Figures 4 and 5 to prove the point of the ﬁrst claim and Figures 6 and 7 to prove the second claim. The artifact contains experiments to reproduce these four ﬁgures, and readers should be able to compare them with the original ﬁgures in the paper to validate the claims.