The peculiarities of the application of computerized systems of wireless remote control of drives, which include single-board computers with Wi-Fi communication channels, are considered. The advantages and disadvantages of programming controllers for wireless control of drives of mobile devices using the Matlab environment are analyzed. The tasks of integrating the IDE programming environment for the most common single-board computers and the video interface to the Matlab environment are set. To assist programmers and developers in creating software for such devices, observation and control modules have been developed as a model for machine simulation and programming skills. Interfaces that ensure the implementation of Simulink graphical programming environment tools into the educational process are proposed. Using the example of creating and setting programs for remote wireless control of elements of robotic systems, including mobile devices for restorative medicine. This report presents a method of programming Arduino boards based on visual support of actions. The created model for visual representation of the operation of a robotic technical system with four degrees of freedom is considered. The clarity, simplicity and effectiveness of such interactive support have been demonstrated. This method is preferred because it does not require prior programming skills to write code to create complex tasks. The method is expected to lend itself well to teaching basic programming skills due to the visual elements offered. Further integration and experience of control program modules in Simulink will require the use of drop-down menus containing informational messages and links to examples. Simulation modeling and statistical evaluation will obviously become the basis for further improvement of the interface, which realizes the advantage of the board when programming using a Wi-Fi network. In addition, an important opportunity for collective problem solving opens up thanks to the transparency and convenience of teaching students programming and process modeling in the Matlab software environment.