In recent years, several dataspace initiatives were formed and are growing in both implementation and memberships. Dozens of individual dataspaces and use-cases are emerging, as listed in the International Data Spaces Association’s "Data Space Radar", Gaia-X, and even more from other initiatives. The European Union is driving this trend even further by including dataspaces as key elements of its data strategy and spending €4-6 billion to establish them in various domains. The main challenges of this trend for dataspaces are twofold. First, there is no common defnition of dataspaces and their core components, making interoperability and FAIRness difcult even at a conceptual level. This likely produces isolated solutions that are tailored to specifc use-cases. Second, the various dataspaces that emerging in the wild have diferent goals, individual implementations, and technology readiness levels. The lack of reusable core components forces stakeholders to reinvent them, leading to divergent implementations and therefore high costs. To overcome these challenges, there has been a growing interest in using semantics-based approaches in dataspaces. These approaches leverage the rich expressiveness of semantic technologies to provide a common vocabulary for representing and integrating data from diferent sources. Although implementations and scientifc notions follow diferent interpretations of the term dataspace, they all agree on some use of semantic technologies. The First International Workshop on Semantics in Dataspaces brings together people interested in dataspaces or the role of semantics in them, from diferent communities such as dataspace drivers, legal and policy makers, as well as the researchers from the Semantic Web community. Since members of these diferent communities rarely have the opportunity to interact with each other, we design the workshop to be highly interactive and communicative. This full-day workshop consists of about 2/3 formal presentations and 1/3 Open Space collaboration. This approach allows participants to