In his famous article “The Computer for the 21st Century”[8], Mark Weiser predicted a computer on almost every device for users to interact with. However, the scaling down of both electronics (exponentially) and batteries (linearly) seems fall short of Weiser’s expectation. After almost 20 years into the 21st century, we still cannot place a computer with rich I/O resources on many devices due to size, cost, and power constrains. Moreover, the Moore’s Law slows down and was even claimed to be ‘over’[1], which leads to a slower or even stagnant scaling. However, we do not need advanced I/O resources on every object for interaction. For many devices, the interaction demands are usually low and can be met with limited resources with carefully designed interaction technique. My PhD works look at ways to empower and enrich interactions on existing objects with limited resources. To empower interactions, low-cost and low-power sensors are built and applied to many devices to enable interactions. The existing signals on such devices can also be leveraged in novel ways for sensing purpose. Also, new power schemes are necessary to reduce the huge power maintenance demands introduced by the large amount of sensors. To enrich interactions with the limited resources, novel interaction techniques are explored to enable richer interactions using simple sensors. With carefully designed interaction techniques, even a binary sensor like buttons can complete common interaction tasks. For example, a binary sequence can be constructed by recording binary states over time. Different sequences can then be mapped to different commands to control the target device. Enabling pervasive interaction does not mean using the same sensors with the same interaction technique under all scenarios. On the contrary, different combinations of sensing mechanisms and interaction techniques are required for different interaction tasks. So in my thesis, novel sensing mechanisms and properly designed interaction techniques are combined and optimized for the specific interaction task. The two are evaluated together for a better demonstration of the advantages of pervasive interaction.