Interactions with other people have a huge influence in one’s well-being, mental health, cognition, and development [14]. The importance of interactions is evident in our everyday life: we teach, learn, converse, and more. According to a recent analysis, social isolation and loneliness are risk factors for increased mortality [18]. In order to effectively maintain and enhance our own lives through successful interaction with others, we rely on these three basic and interrelated human capacities: affect (i.e., feelings about ourselves and others), behavior (i.e., interacting with others) and cognition (i.e., thinking about and understanding other people) [20]. Recent developments in ubiquitous computing enable new approaches for unobtrusive and automatic monitoring of all these physiological variables in a human being that may serve as key markers of humans’ behavior and interactions. Several studies [23, 33] show that it is possible to understand the behavior of users via smart phones. Recent work [31] shows that wearable physiological sensors (i.e., EDA, HR) are good proxies for measuring emotions and mood the two main indicators of affect. Hence, the ubiquitous technologies enabled the unobtrusive tracking of humans socio-affective dynamics during interactions. Researchers in computer-vision community studied social dynamics during interactions focusing on how two social partners coordinate externally observable behaviors (i.e., patterns of gesture) [32]. Although this approach can easily measure behavioral cues from the distance, behavioral cues alone are easier to control and may not always be congruent with the internal affective experience. Psychologists, on the other hand, suggest that our feelings, thoughts and behavior towards people around us are influenced by those people themselves this is studied by social psychology [20]. Therefore, several studies from psychology suggest that interactions may be better understood when the physiological dynamics of all people interacting to each other are known [27]. Physiological responses are externally responsive to in some cases dependent on the nervous system of others [5, 16, 17, 21, 24, 25, 27–29]. In fact, students performance in class is better understood when teachers performance is considered as well [9]. Similarly, children’s engagement is better understood considering also the engagement of the adult [17].