This paper analyses the Network Program Technique from the perspective of its principle and procedures of implementation as well as its merits and demerits, with the aim to solve the problem of overtime and overspend in software development, and provide the incumbent software developer with reference and help. Introduction As a part of Operations Research, Network Program Technique originated from a kind of management technique of scientific program in the mid-50s of the 20th century. Its basic principle is as follows: dividing the required work into several small projects (assignments), rearranging according to assignments’ successive sequence, then applying network diagram to overall planning and deploying the work or the whole project, all these are envisioned to serve the purpose of completing the whole project with the least amount of resources and the highest rate [1]. Statistical data indicates that the project can be finished ahead of time by 15%-20% with the cost minimized by 10%-15% under the condition of adopting PERT[2]. Project Background Fuyuan is a county of good ecology, which has always enjoyed the reputation of “Hometown of Eight Treasures” and is known for adequate natural resources. Within the region not only fills with cultivatable land, hydro energy, plant and animal resources, but also abounds in abundant mineral resources [3]. Teng Yuan Economy &Trading Co., Ltd is located in Fuyuan county and deals in mineral products and metal materials. It contains seven affiliated agencies. In order to monitor each branch’s sales volume and turnover, meanwhile to sense market demand, track prices, inventory and competitors’ conditions, the company decides to set up a tracking system by authorizing De Xiang Software Technology Co., Ltd to develop it. This company uses Network Program Technique to control the development progress of information system, ensuring that the project is to be completed on schedule. Estimate of Project Duration Below is the condition that Teng Yuan Economy &Trading Co., Ltd offers: to complete the system development project within 75 weeks with an 11 million-Yuan total investment. Building a project schedule shouldn’t pay excessive attention to minor details so that to flexibly adjust it in the future on account of the unnecessary macro-control of the rate of progress, as for the extent the work is to be decomposed can only be relied on the project leader’s experience[4]. The project team will divide the whole project into 22 specific tasks in line accordance with general experience and experts’ suggestions: International Conference on Information Science and Computer Applications (ISCA 2013) © 2013. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 62 A Data Collecting; B Research Feasibility ; C Problem Specification; D Meeting Clients; E Current System Research F Need Defining; G Systematic Analysis report; H Data Input, Output; I Date Processing and Database Set-up; J Analysis and Assessment; K System Design; L Software Development; M Hardware development; N Network development; O Development Report Prepare; P Software Testing; Q Hardware Testing; R Network Testing; S Testing Report Preparing; T Training; U Installation; V Implementation report Preparing; Network Diagram Drawing We are able to draw a preliminary network program diagram on the basis of the tasks subdivided above, as figure 1 shows. Codes above the arrows indicate task codes, while numbers below the estimated project duration. Fig.1 Teng Yuan Economy &Trading Co., Ltd’s Network diagram of development project for production and sales Network Time Calculation Time parameters of the network diagram can be calculated based on the diagram above. The project team primarily sets 60 weeks for the project by following the company’s time order. In addition, the project team will normally calculate the required network time by sticking to each process’ estimated working time as well as following the previous experience. Two situations’ results can be worked out below according to the computing method of time parameters and critical path, as figure 1 shows: Table 1 Project Schedule Sheet No. work Estimat ed project duration /week The earliest The latest Total slack/w eek Start time End time Start time End time