As solar panels are becoming economically viable more large scale solar power installations are sprouting throughout the world, producing gigawatts per hour energy that is relatively inexpensive and pollution free. In arid environments where the sun shines every day, except on rare occasions of rain, solar power installations in arid environments when the sun is shining every day except in the rare occasions solar power installations are very productive. Since the inter arrival time between rainfalls is relatively long, strong winds stir up dust that settles on the surface of the solar panels and accumulates over time, inhibiting the solar ray penetration needed to produce the maximum electric energy possible for each panel. In addition migrating birds stop at the solar energy facilities to rest and may deposit droppings which inhibit energy production and chemically react with the surface of the solar panel if they remain on the panel surface for a long time. This alters the surface so that the new surface is not as efficient in absorbing the sunlight, and thus the solar panel produces less energy. Since large scale solar panel installations are placed in large empty areas outside a city, they are subject to the destruction by wild animals that inhabit these areas. Thus wild animals with sharp teeth often times cut the cables of the solar panels. Solar panels provide shading from the sun during the very hot summer days. Animals take advantage of this protection and often times create nests underneath the panels. These animal nests along with the animal activities accelerate the wear and tear of the solar panel cables. Solar panel shading also protects vegetation which often times grows tall enough to interfere with the solar panels and reduce their output, or even change the panel orientation due to the interference of the roots with the base of the panel installation. In addition to that human vandalism could result in breaking of the panel glass or creating a small gap between the air tight glass and the frame, allowing moisture, fungus, ants, and other things to settle in and inhibit the solar panel output. From the above we infer that solar panels need maintenance. The maintenance includes inspection to ensure that the cables are not torn and in very good condition, detection and removal of vegetation so that it will not cause future problems, the panels and cleaning of the panels so they perform at the maximum of their ability. The more employees a solar panel facility has the higher the cost of a kWh becomes. Inconsistencies during cleaning create stripes on the surface panels that inhibit power production until corrected in the next scheduled cleaning. Placing heavy objects during cleaning on the panel glass, could partially disconnect the glass from the frame, creating a small gap that enables the moisture to settle in, and fungus, ants, other small creatures, that inhibit the energy output of the panels. Other mistakes during cleaning could result into cracking or breaking the solar panel glass. Automation has the ability to provide better quality maintenance, that is less expensive, more consistent, and optimize the electric energy output. The system we have been working on is a network of small robots, having secure wireless connection with a server. The communication between serverrobots is real time via network sockets. Depending on the size of the solar panel installation and the antenna network placed in the installation, the wireless protocol used is either Wi-Fi, or the industrial-scientific-medical (ISM). This research paper is structured as follows: Abstract, followed by Introduction, followed by the system description, followed by the hardware description, followed by the software description, followed by conclusions, and finally the references. Volume 3 Issue 5 2017