Welcome to ACM SIGCOMM 2004 and particularly to the technical events of the week. We were very pleased to work together with a cast of many to bring you the papers you will see and hear this week.Research in networking shows no sign of slowing. This year we had a record number of submissions--339 in total, of which 297 were regular papers and 42 were position papers. The submissions came from over 218 institutions in more than 32 countries. Upon submission, the authors selected one or more categories to describe their papers. The most popular category chosen was network architecture and algorithms, followed closely by network, transport, and application-layer protocols. These continue to be the bread-and-butter of SIGCOMM. Other areas making strong showing include the category of wireless, mobile, ad hoc, and sensor networks, as well as peer-to-peer, overlay, and content distribution networks. Traffic and traffic management were also popular among submitted papers.All submissions to SIGCOMM 2004 underwent a rigorous double-blind review process by members of the program committee and external reviewers from the community. The 339 submissions were reviewed by a program committee of 32 people, and 119 external reviewers; some papers received as many as five or six reviews. The culmination of the review process was the program committee meeting at Georgia Tech on April 23, 2004, following a week or two of e-mail discussions of the reviews of many of the papers. Ultimately, the program committee accepted 31 papers -- 29 regular papers and 2 position papers -- divided into ten sessions in a three-day technical program. A smaller set of PC members selected the winners of the Best Student Paper Award. Two papers were chosen: "A First-Principles Approach to Understanding the Internet's Router-level Topology" (Lun Li) and "Link-level Measurements from an 802.11b Mesh Network" (Daniel Aguayo). We'd like to congratulate the authors, and also recognize Professor Simon Lam as the winner of this year's SIGCOMM Award for lifetime technical achievement.