Fiber Bragg grating based ultrasound sensors has been receiving continuous attention from science and industry. It is of great potential in medical imaging, oil exploration, etc. In this paper, we construct an all fiber ultrasound sensing system with cascaded phase-shifted FBG and a normal FBG. Correlation algorithm is used to improve the detection sensitivity based on data acquisition board and virtual instrument LabVIEW. In the experiment, the system sensitivity is calculated as 9 / n Hz e and the dynamic range of the system is 79.33dB. Introduction Since fiber Bragg grating (FBG) was first used as strain and temperature sensors in 1989[1], it has made continuous and fast progress during the two decades. FBG sensors have many advantages over their counterparts such as small size, immunity to electromagnetic interference, and wide bandwidth etc. FBG sensors are now widely used in many industries, such as aerospace, civil engineering, composite material, petrochemical engineering and so on[2]. With fast progress in other disciplines and the background of trans-discipline, FBG sensors are gradually found that can be used to detect ultrasound, in place of traditional piezoe-lectric transducer (PZT) sensors[3]. Further, FBG sensors can be developed and used as hydrophones, in structure health monitoring system, ultrasound distance measurement system, etc[4-6]. FBG based ultrasound sensors have great potential to industrial application. For all types of ultrasound sensors, weak signal detection remains a difficult issue, for the ultrasound signal generally appears at a very low amplitude along with noises from each system node, which could now and then submerge the desired signal and hinder useful data extraction. Meanwhile, the ultrasound signal usually has a large bandwidth, from 20kHz to 1MHz of the acoustic emission at the appearance of damage. Therefore, broad bandwidth is necessary in the ultrasound sensing system. Besides, large dynamic range is also needed for distributed detecting system for the amplitude of the signal from the nearest point to the signal from the farthest point has a large magnitude difference. The earlier researches focused on the bandwidth scope of the FBG, which resulted that the upper detection frequency limit was decided by the fiber length of the FBG[7-9]. Later, researchers began to pay attention to the resolution and then got a high sensitivity system[10]. However, most present detection systems do not mention the dynamic range, especially for high sensitivity system. How to improve the dynamic range of the system while keeping high sensitivity is of great significance for industrial application. In this paper, we use a phase-shifted fiber Bragg grating (PS-FBG) cascaded with a normal FBG to guarantee both the high sensitivity and large dynamic range of the system. Meanwhile, we use a balanced photo detector to eliminate the laser intensity noise[10]. For the acquisition part, we built a compact correlation detection system, simply comprised of data acquisition (DAQ) board NI USB-6366 and virtual instrument LabVIEW. Correlation calculation is performed in LabVIEW, so we do not have to adopt discrete hardware circuitries[11]. As for practical use, we applied this detection system for detecting the ultrasound on the aluminium plate, and compare with PZT International Conference on Information Science and Computer Applications (ISCA 2013) © 2013. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 141 transducer. The result indicates that the system sensitivity limit is better than 10 / n Hz e and the dynamic range is around 80dB. Theory of the system and Experimental configuration A. System hardware structure. Fig. 1 shows the system schematic diagram. The tunable laser Agilent 8164 is used as a light source with a linewidth of 100kHz and the tunable resolution is 0.1pm. The circulator connects the laser and the cascaded FBG and phase-shifted FBG with port 1 and port 2, respectively. The transmitted light and the reflected light are input into two ports of the balanced photo detector (KG-BPR-200M). The BPD contains two PDs and two amplifiers with the gain of 4 2 10 × . The converted electric signal is input into the DAQ card USB-6366, and further into PC to deal with. The FBG and PS-FBG are glued on the 3 250 250 2mm × × aluminum plate. PZT 1 and PZT 2 are placed on the plate with the acoustic couplant. The distance from PS-FBG to PZT 1 and PZT 2 to PZT 1 is the same, 5cm. A function generator (FG) is used to generate waves with different peak-to-peak voltages and frequencies to drive the PZT actuator, PZT 1. PZT 2 is used to detect ultrasound, comparing the performance with PS-FBG. Fig. 1 System configuration B. Theory of the system. The demodulation method of the system is edge filter detection, as is shown in Fig. 2. The wavelength of the narrow linewidth TLS is set around the 3dB location of the PS-FBG or FBG spectrum, where the reflectivity and the transmittance are around 0.5. If there is no ultrasound signal, the reflected signal into one port of the BPD is the same as the transmitted signal into another port of the BPD. The two signals subtract and are amplified in the BPD, so the output voltage is 0V. When the PS-FBG or FBG has detected the ultrasound signal, the two input signals from the two ports of the BPD have the same amplitude but the opposite phase because of the sensing principle of the FBG[12] . Therefore we can detect the AC voltage from the BPD to demodulate the ultrasound signal. In this system, the linear region of the FBG and PS-FBG is used. Fig. 3 show the spectrum of the PS-FBG we used in this experiment. Fig. 2 System demodulation principle Fig. 3 Tested PS-FBG spectrum The PS-FBG used in this system is the key component to guarantee the high sensitivity. PS-FBG is one kind of aperiodic FBG, which open one or several extremely narrow transmission window in the 142 reflectivity spectrum[13,14], as is shown in Fig. 4. The bandwidth of the PS-FBG is only about 0.016nm, which is only tenths of a normal FBG. In the experiment, the bandwidth of the FBG we used is 0.2nm. The linear slope rate of the PS-FBG is 70nm-1, which is 140 times in comparison with the normal FBG of 0.5nm-1. This means that weak ultrasound signal can generate much larger amplitude of the AC voltages due to the edge filter detection principle. Meanwhile, in order to maintain a relatively large dynamic range, a normal FBG is cascaded. The system can work in two states due to different central wavelengths of the FBG and PS-FBG: the high sensitivity mode and the large dynamic range mode. The function of the BPD is to eliminate the large DC voltage and the laser intensity noise. -60 -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 1