It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the Internet Measurement Conference 2008 (IMC'08), sponsored by ACM SIGCOMM and in cooperation with USENIX and ACM SIGMETRICS. For the past 8 years, the Internet Measurement Conference has been the premier forum for presentation of research results that contribute to the current understanding of how to collect or analyze Internet measurements, or provide insight into how the Internet behaves. 
 
This year we received a record number of 185 submissions from Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. Each paper under consideration was reviewed by at least two reviewers from the Program Committee, over 80% received three reviews, and a small number had four or more reviews. The set of papers under consideration was winnowed down over multiple rounds of reviews and a discussion phase via the on-line review system before the PC meeting. At the end of the discussion phase, about 70 papers were recommended for further discussion and consideration at the PC meeting, which was hosted at Intel Research Pittsburgh. After heated discussion and careful deliberations that lasted a full day, 32 papers---with a balanced mixture of full-length (14 pages) and short (6 pages) papers---were identified by the program committee to be included in the technical program. The resulting program covers a wide range of topic areas related to Internet measurement. For the first time, the conference program also includes a keynote speech by Prof. Christos Faloutsos of Carnegie Mellon University, and a panel session on "Measurement Challenges in Online Social Networks." After the end of the technical program, there will be a tutorial on the IETF IPFIX protocol by Elisa Boschi and Brian Trammell. 
 
Following the tradition of past IMC conferences, a Best Paper Award paper is selected among those in the program that makes their measurement data publically available. This year's Best Paper Award goes to "Experimental Study of Router Buffer Sizing," by Neda Beheshti (Stanford University), Yashar Ganjali (University of Toronto), Monia Ghobadi (University of Toronto), Nick McKeown (Stanford University), Geoff Salmon (University of Toronto). Congratulations to the authors of the award paper, and we hope the released data are well used by the community.