In this article, a new supply chain for manufacturing from design to delivery is presented. An open-source protocol and collection of smart contracts called 3D-Chain is introduced by authors to become an ecosystem for manufacturers, designers and customers. Within this framework, the 3D Printing and fabrication technologies become a global common infrastructure for all and anyone can access 3D Printing network or become a stakeholder in its development. Supporting software infrastructure for sustainable merge of 3D Printing into a new decentralized manufacturing market, bringing the value of new technologies to accelerate the innovation, addressing cross-functional components in manufacturing and design (designer, manufacturer, customer, researcher, supplier, and ...) to develop a programmatic approach for supply chain, decentralizing and adapting production and service against the needs of customers, and unlocking mass customization are 3D-Chain’s objectives. Received: March 03, 2018; Accepted: March 19, 2018; Published: March 26, 2018 *Corresponding author: Babak Zareiyan, PhD, Department of Civil Engineering, University of Southern California, USA, E-mail: zareiyan@usc. edu Introduction The future of manufacturing Manufacturing is a critical contributor to productivity, innovation, and trade. Time of big growth always has been supported by manufacturing revolutions (Steam engine, mass production, and automation). In advanced economies, a shrinking manufacturing sector is seen as evidence of decline in growth and in developing countries; manufacturing is the engine of development. Productivity is the core of manufacturing and it must be sustainable to serve the growth in long term. Today, the global manufacturing is facing a fierce competition over every scrap of market share and we can see rates of economic growth in major economic blocks are declining (Figure 1). Neither building factories offshore to take advantage of the cheap labor nor expanding factories are the answer to this. Manufacturers plan to make significant and often fundamental changes to their business to drive future growth. However, Limited baseline growth is expected in most manufacturing markets. Forward-thinking players will need to sense and anticipate the future and create an adaptive response (e.g. digitization of manufacturing sector [2]). Figure 1: Global GDP growth 1965-2016 (annual %) [1] Figure 2: Additive manufacturing process [3] 3D Printing also known as Additive Manufacturing (AM) creates physical objects from a digital file using layer upon layer printing approach. Figure 2 shows the process which starts with modeling the object that can be of almost any geometry. At