This paper discusses the techniques of attitude, velocity ad position estimation from GNSS carrier phase measurements, and investigates the performance of the lower precision MEMS-based INS/GNSS system based on carrier phase measurements. Double differenced carrier phase measurements provide more accurate velocity and position estimation compared to code and Doppler measurements. However, integer ambiguity is required to be removed for precise positioning. Multiples antennae approach is used to derive the attitude information from carrier phase measurements in order to control the large initial misalignment angles for initialization of the integration process or to utilize during benign dynamics. Lever arm effect is considered to compensate for the separation of GNSS antenna and IMU location. The derived three GNSS observables are used to correct the INS through optimal Kalman filtering in a closed loop. Simulation results indicates the effectiveness of the integrated system for airborne as well as for land navigation vehicles . This paper discusses the techniques of attitude, velocity ad position estimation from GNSS carrier phase measurements, and investigates the performance of the lower precision MEMS based INS/GNSS system based on carrier phase measurements. Double differenced carrier phase measurements provide more accurate velocity and position estimation compared to code and Doppler measurements. However, integer ambiguity is required to be removed for precise positioning. Multiples antennae approach is used to derive the attitude information from carrier phase measurements in order to control the large initial misalignment angles for initialization of the integration process or to utilize during benign dynamics. Lever arm effect is considered to compensate for the separation of GNSS antenna and IMU location. The derived three GNSS observables are used to correct the INS through optimal Kalman filtering in a closed loop. Simulation results indicates the effectiveness of the integrated system for airborne as well as for land navigation vehicles .