This volume contains the proceedings of SESENA 2012, the third in a series of workshops devoted to software engineering for sensor network applications. The workshop took place in Zurich (Switzerland) on June 2, 2012 in conjunction with the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). Its objective was to discuss current work and future directions in software engineering for sensor network applications. 
 
By acting as the interface between digital and physical worlds, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) represent a fundamental building block of the upcoming Internet of Things and a key enabler for Cyber-physical and Pervasive Systems. These systems are composed of tiny devices that are inherently resource constrained. Their lifetime depends on the capacity of their batteries and their energy consumption. Memory is scarce and processing power is limited. Communication among nodes is typically unreliable and consumes a major part of the energy. Furthermore, WSN applications must run unattended and therefore self-organize. 
 
Despite the interest raised by this decade-old research topic, the development of WSN software is still carried out in a rather primitive fashion, by building software directly atop the operating system and by relying on individuals' hard-earned programming skills. WSN developers must face not only the functional application requirements but also a number of challenging, non-functional requirements and constraints resulting from scarce resources. The heterogeneity of network nodes, the unpredictable environmental influences, and the large size of the network further add to the difficulties. In the WSN community there is a growing awareness of the need for methodologies, techniques, and abstractions that simplify the development task and increase the confidence in the functional correctness, dependability and performance of the resulting software. Software engineering (SE) support is therefore sought, not only to ease the development task but also to make it more reliable, dependable, and repeatable. Nevertheless, this topic has received so far very little attention by the SE community. 
 
The aim of the SESENA workshop was to bring together researchers belonging to both the SE and WSN communities, not only to exchange recent research results on the topic, but also to stimulate discussion about the core open problems and to define a shared research agenda. Synergy between these fields could advance both: by providing WSNs with the techniques currently missing, and by providing SE with an opportunity to face new challenges or reconsider old problems in a new context. The workshop was also intended to provide a discussion forum for software development and deployment for WSN applications, and aimed at the definition of a shared research agenda and the consolidation of a community around the subject area.