The US Department of Energy (DOE) has set a power target of 20-30MW on the first exascale machines. To achieve one exaFLOPS under this power constraint, it is necessary to manage power intelligently while maximizing performance. Most production-level parallel applications suffer from computational load imbalance across distributed processes due to non-uniform work decomposition. Other factors like manufacturing variation and thermal variation in the machine room may amplify this imbalance. As a result of this imbalance, some processes of a job reach the blocking calls, collectives or barriers earlier and wait for others to reach the same point. This waiting results in a wastage of energy and CPU cycles which degrades application efficiency and performance. We address this problem for power-limited jobs via Power Shifter (PShifter), a dual-level, feedback-based mechanism that intelligently and automatically detects such imbalance and reduces it by dynamically re-distributing a job's power budget across processors to improve the overall performance of the job compared to a naïve uniform power distribution across nodes. In contrast to prior work, PShifter ensures that a given power budget is not violated. At the bottom level of PShifter, local agents monitor and control the performance of processors by actuating different power levels. They reduce power from the processors that incur substantial wait times. At the top level, the cluster agent that has the global view of the system, monitors the job's power consumption and provides feedback on the unused power, which is then distributed across the processors of the same job. Our evaluation on an Intel cluster shows that PShifter achieves performance improvement of up to 21% and energy savings of up to 23% compared to uniform power allocation, outperforms static approaches by up to 40% and 22% for codes with and without phase changes, respectively, and outperforms dynamic schemes by up to 19%. To the best of our knowledge, PShifter is the first approach to transparently and automatically apply power capping non-uniformly across processors of a job in a dynamic manner adapting to phase changes.