The concept of local consistency plays a central role in constraint satisfaction. Given a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP), local consistency can be characterized as deriving new, possibly tighter, constraints based on local information. The derived constraints simplify the representation of the original CSP without the loss of solutions. This can be seen as a preprocessing procedure. Based on arc consistency (Mackworth. 1977a) for classic CSPs and soft arc consistency (Cooper & Schiex 2004; Bistarelli 2004) for soft CSPs, we presented a weaker condition using a commutative semiring structure to abstract generalized arc consistency (Mackworth 1977b) to handle constraint-based inference (CBI) problems beyond classic and soft CSPs. The weaker condition proposed in (Chang & Mackworth 2005) has also been relaxed to fit generalized approximate preprocessing schemes. We propose in (Chang & Mackworth 2006) a new family of generalized local consistency concepts for the junction graph representation of CBI problems. Here we provide an extended summary. These concepts are based on a general condition that depends only on the existence and property of the multiplicative absorbing element and does not depend on other semiring properties of CBI problems (Chang & Mackworth 2005). We present several local consistency enforcing algorithms with various levels of enforcement and corresponding theoretic and empirical complexity analyses. Some of these algorithms can be seen as generalized versions of well-known local consistency enforcing techniques in CSPs and can be exported to other domains. Other abstract local consistency concepts are novel to the constraint programming community and provide more efficient preprocessing results. We also discuss the relationship between these local consistency concepts and message passing schemes such as junction tree algorithms and loopy message propagation. Local consistencies can be achieved along with message propagation and improve the efficiency of message passing schemes.