Personal computer/Workstation (PC/WS) clusters are prodsing candidates for future high performance computers, because of their good scalability and cost performance ratio. Data intensive applications, such as data mining and data warehousing, have become very important applications for high performance computing. We previously developed a large scale PC cluster connected with ATM, and implemented several database applications, including parallel data mining, to evaluate their performance and the feasibility of such applications using PC clusters. Association rule mining, one of the best-known problems in data mining, differs from conventional scientific calculations in its usage of main memory. It allocates many small data areas in main memory, and the number of those areas suddenly grows enormously during execution, Thus, the requirement for memory space changes dynamically and becomes extremely large. As a result, the contents of memory must be swapped out if the requirement exceeds the real memory size. However, because the size of each data area is rather small and the elements aTe accessed almost at random, swapping out to a storage device must degrade the performance severely in this case. We are investigating the feasibility of using available memory on idle nodes as a swap area when working nodes need to swap out their real memory contents during the execution of parallel data mining on PC clusters. In many cases, idle nodes are expected to exist in large clusters. In this paper, we report our experiments in which nodes executing applications acquire extra memory dynamically from several available idle nodes through a high-speed network ATM in our pilot system. The experimental results on our PC cluster show that the proposed method is expected to be considerably better than using hard disks as a swapping device. Moreover, a method using a distant node’s memory with remote update operations, which is expected to prevent a thrashing problem, is proposed and evaluated. p,ymission to make digital or hard COMICS of all or Part Of this work fo’ Persona, or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made oT distributed for profit Or eommerciak advantage and “la’ copies bear this notice and the fill citation on the first Page. To COPY othcnvisc, to republish, to post on s~-~ers or to redistribute to list% reqlrires prior specific permission and/or a fee. 1CS ‘99 Rhodes Greece copyright ACM 1999 I-581 13-164-x/99/06...$5.00