The survey of the CIKM Call for Papers for the period 1998 - 2002 demonstrates that the CIKM organizers very accurately "identify challenging problems facing the development of future knowledge and information systems [in] applied and theoretical research" [1998] and also play an important role fostering "bridging traditionally separated areas such as databases and information retrieval, or those that apply techniques from one area to another" [2001, 2002]. The presented CIKM papers also indicate that researchers work on interesting problems. This talk will discuss some additional research topics for future consideration by the CIKM community.In most cases, to achieve important results, research needs to be well supported. If you are not getting the funding you need, this talk may provide some pointers where you can look for finding. If you are well supported, I will try to convince you that you can be instrumental in improving the funding scenario for everybody, by mentoring the junior members of the CIKM community, by forming collaborative (international, interdisciplinary) teams and by letting the funders know what you find conducive to your research and what you consider a hindrance. Regardless if you are well funded or not, it is most helpful if you are active in identifying new research directions and also assist in evaluating the priorities.The most frequent problem for inadequate funding is lack of funds. However, researchers can help! This can be achieved in many different ways: thinking about long-term applications of fundamental research to societal needs; working with communities that can directly benefit from research; sharing the research results not only with the research colleagues, but also wider constituencies - at their appropriate levels; and informing your funders about your spectacular achievements, i.e., providing good reasons for increasing the research funding.CIKM strives to bring together research communities that traditionally do not work together. Providing a forum for interdisciplinary research is laudable and very important, as very often interdisciplinary or international research is not "appreciated". This talk will discuss how we could gradually change the discipline- and country-based "appraisal" cultures. We will also attempt to answer the question: "What is the ultimate appreciation?" (Nobel Prize? ...successful .com?... ???).