Social and biological networks have led to a huge interest in data analysis on graphs. Various groups within the KDD community have begun to study the task of data mining on graphs, including researchers from database-oriented graph mining, and researchers from kernel machine learning. Their approaches are often complementary, and we feel that exciting research problems and techniques can be discovered by exploring the link between these different approaches to graph mining. The goal of this tutorial is (i) to introduce newcomers to the field of graph mining, (ii) to introduce people with database background to graph mining using kernel machines, (iii) to introduce people with machine learning background to database-oriented graph mining, and (iv) to present exciting research problems at the interface of both fields. 1 Target audience and prerequisites Target Audience This tutorial is intended for students, researchers and practitioners from graph mining, system biology, social network analysis, software engineering and related fields. The intended audience of this tutorial includes novice researchers, advanced experts, as well as practitioners from any application domain dealing with graph-structured or network data. The goal of this tutorial is • to introduce newcomers to the field of graph mining, • to introduce people with database background to graph mining using kernel machines, • to introduce people with machine learning background to database-oriented graph mining, • to present exciting research problems at the interface of both fields. In the past five years, a lot of research work on graph mining and graph kernels has been done in parallel in data mining and machine learning societies. So far, there is no single tutorial dedicated to bring these two research areas together. This tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of the techniques developed in graph mining and graph kernels and examines the connection between them. We believe it is timely and in high demand to have such a converged tutorial on this growing theme. Prerequisites The tutorial assumes familiarity with basic knowledge about efficient algorithms and data structures, as taught in most undergraduate courses in Computer Science.