The aim of our research is to build a Reflexive Agent, that is able to either manifest an emotion it is feeling or to hide it. If the Agent decides to manifest its emotion, it can establish what verbal or nonverbal signals to employ in its communication and how to combine and synchronize them. In the decision of whether to express an emotion in a given context, a number of factors are considered, such as the Agent's own personality and goals, the Interlocutor's characteristics and the context. In planning how to communicate an emotion, various factors are considered as well: the available modalities (face, gaze, voice etc); the cognitive ease in producing and processing the various signals; the expressiveness of every signal in communicating specific meanings; and, finally, the appropriateness of signals to social situations. 1 Introduction Artificial Agents are not yet endowed with the capacity of 'feeling' emotions, mainly because emotions would imply an involvement of the hardware of a machine and this will be impossible, or at least difficult, still for some years [Picard, 1997]. But let us suppose that we have an agent that is able to feel emotions; what could it do? How could it behave? Would it manifest its emotions to a potential interlocutor or would it ruminate on its own emotion by itself, without showing its feeling? The effects of sharing an emotion, to the person who feels, are described in the psychology literature [Rimé, 1987]: it has been shown, for example, that people who have undergone severe shocks and share their emotions are better adapted, undergo fewer heart and pressure problems and have longer life [Pennebaker, 1989]. Of course, people differ in their proneness to display emotions: some of us are very impulsive and tend to display their emotions whatever the consequences of this display, while others are more reflexive and follow the rule " think it over seven times seven before". In fact, if I show to my boss that I am angry at him, this may make me feel better at the moment but I may risk being fired. In some cases, though, this may also show that I'm not afraid of him, and he might respect or admire me. Now, the decision of whether to display my anger at my boss may be a very cold, calculated and utilitarian one. But we may also decide whether to display our emotion …