Information retrieval has a long and rich tradition of measuring and evaluating. Many measures have been suggested for evaluating performance and quality of information retrieval systems. There are many examples where large-scale experiments have been carried out aiming at evaluating and comparing different systems. At the same time, it is well known that different formal measures reflect different intuitive ideas of quality and have different properties. They often contradict each other and they are often incompatible. However, there is as yet no systematic way to describe and investigate the relation between intuitive ideas of quality, on the one hand, and measures representing formally those ideas of quality, on the other. Without a clear understanding of this relation there is no sound basis for comparing different measures or for selecting in some given applicational environment one of the many measures suggested to date. Having no justifiable criteria for comparing different measures and for selecting one of them, users apply formal criteria such as the measure having one number as value, or having a maximum or minimum (Swets, 1969). Such decisions, as well as judgements about relative quality of information retrieval systems based on those decisions, are not convincing:, one system cannot be declared to be better than another one just because some formal mechanism assigns to the first system a symbol which in a formal ordering lies higher than the symbol assigned to the second system. Information systems are conceived for practical use and their quality is a practical matter rather than a formal one. This situation has given and still gives rise to protests. Users try to overcome it in two ways. The first way leads to requiring the measure applied to have certain measurement-theoretic properties (van Rijsbergen, 1974). The second way tries to justify measures by connecting them to the practical application of the information system evaluated by means of this measure (Lancaster, 1968). Both ideas seem sound. However, leaning upon measurement theory, without unambiguous emphasis on the intuitive viewpoint about quality, amounts to justifying one formalism by another. This way the problem of justification is postponed rather than solved. The other idea, trying to connect measures with practical applications, of the system measured, would be precisely what is