The aerospace industry is characterized by sophisticated systems level design and integration. Large and diversified companies (“systems houses”) have generally supported several mainframe-based computing networks. But, as customer requirements expanded, almost every resource has penetrated the aerospace market. The engineering workstation (EWS) is no exception. Its rapid development has had a tremendous impact on the electronics industry.
Initially, the EWS was targeted for application to integrated circuit design. The semiconductor sector has experienced breakthrough as a result of major improvements in the automation of design and physicalization tasks. Now, EWSs are the catalysts for an advanced technology revolution in large systems-oriented corporations, especially those in the aerospace industry. Key EWS features, such as hierarchical design, behavioral modeling, local simulation, interactive graphics, and on-line documentation, have limited use in their fundamental forms and must be tailored for specific applications. Systems design and integration requires that the engineer look at the “big picture” for any task. Engineering workstation capability should be expanded to include more sophisticated aerospace applications incorporating new technologies.
At this point in time, EWSs are themselves no longer new. Interest is growing as engineers realize the underlying power of this technology. The difference between aerospace requirements and those in the commercial semiconductor sector are a matter of scope. The global requirements are identical:Design requirements and specifications
New technology insertion
Efficient resource communication
Efficient system utilization
Physicalization
Verification
Manufacturing and assembly
Documentation.

The dimensions added by aerospace are those of complexity and sophistication. A typical commercial product may be a personal computer. A typical aerospace product is an aircraft. The latter involves a highly integrated system designed by engineers in multiple disciplines.
EWSs, although not the most powerful computers, are by far the most flexible. Can they really be utilized in the systems environment? Theoretically, the engineer can use the EWS to access a single design database from the functional description through production. Realistically, they have not yet reached that level of integration. The perfect interface between the EWS, design methodologies, and computer resources does not exist. This goal can be summarized: sophisticated technology is needed to design sophisticated technology.
Many large systems companies support customers in the military community. EWSs are found in multiple-interface environments that serve a wide variety of potential users. The workstation immediately affords an ability to interface at virtually any point in the design cycle, so that the customer may do as little or as much of the design work as is necessary. A major challenge lies in integrating the EWS into a pre-existing, fully developed custom IC design methodology, where the EWS is expected to supplement, but not replace, existing tools.
Not every engineering environment requires the fully configured EWS. The personal computer is now a low-cost CAE alternative, at the expense of memory and processing capability. Systems engineering tools for hardware design applications, such as design capture and logic simulation, now reside on personal computers. The effectiveness of these systems over the entire design cycle or isolated segments thereof has not yet been demonstrated. A realistic engineering assessment of the PC-based EWS with respect to productivity is required.
Regardless of the task, documentation is essential. Our best ideas are lost if they are not communicated. In an industry of high technology and iterative design, failure to heed this message can severely impact a company's ability to compete. The same documentation which presents the product to the customer serves as an interactive tool for further refinement and modification of the product by the designer. Therefore, design tools should promote the execution of documentation concurrent with the design.
This presentation/panel discussion will satisfy a broad spectrum of interests for current and potential CAE/CAD users. Specifically, the purpose of the session is to provide:
Insight into the multi-faceted requirements that large systems companies must address when evaluating/applying CAE/CAD tools, especially EWS technology
Existing CAE/CAD alternatives as selected by the companies represented
User perspectives on the quality of available tools and what gaps in capability exist
A basis for influencing the direction of CAE/CAD technology development to include more sophisticated system design capabilities.
The panelists represent several major systems/aerospace corporations. They are key individuals responsible for the technical evaluation of EWS technology and its integration into their respective companies. Each panelist will present brief background information, emphasizing their involvement with current CAE/CAD technology issues and indicating future requirements. To assure a technically interesting and completely objective discussion, the panel participants have been intentionally selected from the EWS user community. They reflect diversity with respect to:
CAE/CAD applications
EWS utilized
Levels of expertise with CAE/CAD hardware and software.
The session will generate valuable user feedback to vendors about the existing industry capability and future needs.