When firms and statistical agencies disseminate information about the data they collect, they are often constrained by the need to protect the privacy of the individuals in their sample. In many cases, they do so by committing to a publication mechanism --- that is, a stochastic map from possible datasets to published outputs --- so as to satisfy a differential privacy [1] requirement. We explicitly model the problem of selecting such a mechanism so as to maximize ex ante social welfare of data users who use its output to make better decisions. We do so in a setting where respondents each have one of two types, and the data users' payoffs depend on their own action and the proportion of the respondents that have the higher type. Because differential privacy requires commitment to a signal about the data, this problem is one of information design [3,4]. In particular, we show that the problem reduces to designing a signal about the true proportion of respondents that have the higher type, subject to a constraint on the posterior beliefs about that proportion that the signal can induce. We then use tools from the information design literature to characterize the problem's solution and its maximized value. In applications with complementarity between the data users' actions and the proportion of respondents with the higher type --- i.e., when the data users' payoffs are supermodular --- we go further, and show that the geometric mechanism [2] solves the data provider's problem. To do so, we introduce a partial order on information structures --- the Uniform-Peaked Relative Risk Order (UPRR) --- in which the geometric mechanism dominates all other publication mechanisms that satisfy differential privacy at the same level. Specifically, the UPRR order ranks one information structure above another when each of the posteriors induced by the former have a state --- the posterior's peak --- around which it concentrates relatively more mass than any of the posteriors induced by the latter. As we show, an information structure higher in the UPRR order is more useful to any decision maker with a supermodular decision problem.