In spite of being a key determinant of latency, cost, power, space, and capability of modern computer systems, network switch radix has not seen much growth over the years due to poor scaling of off-chip IO pitches and switch die sizes. We consider waferscale integration (WSI) as a way to increase the size of the switch substrate to be much bigger than a single die and ask the question: can we use WSI to enable network switches that have dramatically higher radix than today’s switches? We show that while a waferscale network switch can support up to 32x higher radix than state-of-the-art network switches when only area constraints are considered, the actual radix of a waferscale network switch is not area-limited. Rather, it is limited by a combination of internal bandwidth, external bandwidth, and power density. In fact, without optimizations, benefits of a waferscale network switch are minimal. To address the scalability bottlenecks, we propose a heterogeneous network switch design that reduces switch power by 30.8%-33.5% which, in turn, allows an increase in radix (by up to 4x) by increasing internal I/O bandwidth at the expense of energy efficiency. We also propose subswitch deradixing that increases the overall radix by 2x by decreasing the radix of the subswitches to alleviate the internal I/O bottleneck. We use Area I/O and Optical I/O schemes to alleviate the external I/O bandwidth bottlenecks of conventional SerDes-based external connectivity. In addition to scalability optimization, we present optimizations such as low latency buffering and proprietary routing that improve the performance of waferscale switches. Finally, we present a system architecture for a waferscale network switch that supports its port count, power delivery, and cooling requirements in a compact form factor. We show that the switch can be used to enable new computing systems such as single-switch datacenters and massive-scale singular GPUs. It can also lead to a dramatic reduction in datacenter network costs. Overall, this is the first work quantifying the benefits of waferscale switches and identifying and addressing the unique challenges and opportunities in building them.