1 Introduction This paper focuses on a formal approach* for advanced database modeling and design. It is based on the IF02 model, an extension of the semantic model IF0 defined by S. Abiteboul and R. Hull. It preserves the acquired strengths of the semantic approaches, whilst integrating concepts of the object paradigm. To model an IF02 schema, the structural part of the model including concepts such as alternative, composition, grouping for building complex objects and semantic constraints is formally specified. Furthermore, the definitions of update facilities necessary to modify and perfect IF02 schemas are specified through change rules. Finally, in order to design a database schema, an IF02 schema is translated, in an automatical way, into an existing target (implementable) model. As an illustration, we present a translation from the IF02 model into the CQ one. The result is a new coherent and formal approach which is useful in overcoming some of the difficulties in the specification and design of object-oriented applications. * Thix wok. xuppod by the PRC-BD3 and WI Extawl Euntpean Rorslmh hjxol in coR&0doo with Digital Bquipnau, amnoa wilbin Ih uq4 of a larger pmjsct whas aim is to realize m aided system for l dvumcd rppliutioo modeling and dcsip. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed far direct commercial advantage. the VLDB copyright notice and fhe title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Very Large Data Base Endowment.'To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee an&or special permission from the Endowment. Modeling needs for new applications and flaws in the relational model have led to the definition of more powerful mod& which are extended relational [I] or object-oriented [5], [6] and [15]. The generic term for associated systems, of which certain prototypes are described in [26], is Advanced Database Management Systems. As a consequence, current research work is focusing on the definition of new modcling and design approaches able to satisfy the needs of both traditional and advanced applications [7], [l l] and 1131. The prcscntcd research work fits into this context: a new approach whose three main aspects are the following ones. Firstly, a formal object model IF02 1281 is defined for advanced database modeling as an extension of the semantic model IF0 proposed by S. Abiteboul …