PRONOUN RESOLUTION : AN E~ERIMENTAL STUDY Kate Ehrlich Department of Psychology UnlversiCy of Massachusetts Amherst, ~ 01003 The qusstlun of how people resolve pronouns has the various factors combine. been of interest to language theorists for a long time because so much of what goes on when people find referents for pronouns seems to lie at the heart of comprehension. However, despite the relevance of pronouns for comprehension and language cheorT, the processes chat contribute to pronoun resolution have proved notoriously difficult Co pin down. Part of the difficulty arises from the wide range of fac=ors that can affect which antecedent noun phrase in a tex~ is usderstood to be co-referentlal with a particular pronoun. These factors can range from simple number/gender agreement through selectional rescrlc~ions co quite complex "knowledge chat has been acquired from the CaxC (see Webber, (1978) for a neatly illustrated description of many of these factors). Research in psychology, artificial intelligence a~d linguistics has gone a long way toward identifying some of these factors and t h e i r r o l e in p ronoun r e s o l u ~ i o n . F o r instance, in psychology, research carried ouC by Caramazza =-d his colleagues (Caramazza et el, 1977) as well as research chat I have dune (Ehrllch, 1980), has demuns~rated that number/sender agreement really c=fumcciun t o constrain the choice of referent in a way Chat signiflcantly facilltaCes processing. Within an AI framework, there has been some very interesting work carried out by Sidner (1977) m~d Grosz (1977) thac seeks to identify the current topic of a Cex1: and co show Chat knowledge of the topic can considerably sillily pronoun resolutlon. I t is important that people a r e able co select appropriate referents for pronouns and co have some basis for that decision. The research discussed so far has mentioned some of the factors Chac contribute co chose decisiuns. However, part of ~he problem of really u n d e r s t a n d i n g how people resolve pronouns is knowing how Certainly it is important a~d useful to polnc to a particular factor as concributlng to a reference decision, but in many texts more than one of these factors will be available to a reader or listener. One problem for the theorist is then to explaln which factor predominates in the decision as well as to describe the scheduling of evaluaclon procedures. If it could be shown that there was a stricc ordering in which tests were applied, say, number/gender agreement followed by selectionai restrictions followed by inference procedures, pronoun resoluclon may be simpler to explain. At our present level of knowledge it is dlfficulc to discern ordering principles chat have any degree of generality. For Instance, for every example where the topic seems to determine choice, a sinLilar example c~often be found where the more recent antecedent is preferred over the one that forms part of the topic. Moreover, even this claim begs the quesclon of how the coplc can be identified unambiguously. A different approach is possible. The process of assigning a referent Co a pronoun c~m be viewed as utilizing two kinds of strategies. One strategy is concerned with selecting the best referent from amongst the candidates available. The ocher strategy is concerned with searching through memory for the candidates. These two types of strategy, which will be referred to msem¢-lically as inference and search strategies, have different kinds of characteristics. A search strategy dictates the order in which candldaces are evaluated, but has no machinery for carrying out the evaluation. The inference strategy helps to set up the representaclon of the information in the cexC agains c which candldacas can be evaluated, but has ~o way of finding the c~aldidates. ~n the rest of this paper, she way these straCegles ~ighc interact will be explored and the results of two studies will be reported that bear on