The interactive entertainment genre of the strategy game entertains users by allowing them to engage in strategic play, which should encourage game designers to devote development efforts toward facilitating users that wish to employ commonsense strategies, and to recognize and react to specific user strategies during game play. This paper attempts to facilitate these development efforts by identifying and analyzing 43 strategies from Sun Tzu’s The Art of War, which are broadly applicable across games in the strategy game genre. For each strategy, a set of specific actions are identified that should be provided to users to enable their execution, along with generalized recognition rules that can facilitate the design of entertaining responses to users’ strategic behavior. Consideration of how the enabling actions could be incorporated into an existing strategy game is provided. 1. Strategy-enabled interactive entertainment In a previous paper (Gordon, 2001a), we argued that there were three distinct levels in which an interactive computer game could be considered to be strategyenabled. First, a game could be strategy facilitating, in that the breadth of actions that were available to its users included those that were part of known strategies in the corresponding real-world domain. Second, a game could be strategy aware, where these real-world strategies would be explicitly represented internally as patterns to be matched against user behavior – and where the recognition of a user’s strategy would cause some entertaining response by the game. Third, a game could be strategy capable, where the computer uses these real-world strategies to plot their offensive and defensive actions against the user in a dynamic manner. This previous paper also described a design methodology that was based on the collection and preformal representation of specific real-world strategies (from Gordon, 2001b). 60 pre-formal representations of political strategies collected from Niccolo Machiavelli’s The Prince were considered, identifying a set of 46 abstract actions that enabled users to execute these strategies and 66 abstract environmental features that played a role in the recognition of these strategies. It was argued that to create a game that was strategyenabled at the first two levels (facilitation & awareness), it would be necessary to offer the users specific instances of these abstract actions, and explicitly represent and manage these environmental features. In many ways, these recommendations are too impractical to be used by game developers. First, they require that developers identify the ways that abstract actions are instantiated in their game environment, which is a non-trivial task (e.g. the action Execute a partial plan). Second, they require game developers to collect and represent these strategies themselves – a task that cannot easily be worked into typical development budgets. In this current paper, we attempt to address the shortcomings of this previous work in two ways. First, we focus our analysis on a set of strategies that are specifically relevant to an entire gaming genre: the strategy game. Second, for each of the strategies that we examine, we identify the specific user commands that must be supported by the software (through a menu of commands, mouse clicks, keyboard hotkeys, or otherwise) to enable user to execute these strategies, along with generalized recognition rules that will allow the software to notice when a strategy is being used. This approach aims toward a development process that requires only the instantiation of these recognition rules by game developers in their specific strategy game environment. 2. Strategy Games and Sun Tzu An important genre of interactive entertainment is that of the strategy game, where one or more users lead their forces into conflict with their opponents, which may be controlled by the computer or by other players. Within two general frameworks, turn-based and real time, the strategy game genre has explored an enormous number of contexts, from the growth and defense of emerging civilizations, the command of modern mechanized military offenses, to intergalactic struggles for species survival. Despite their differences, instances of this genre are almost always based on the theme of military conflict, and indeed the moniker of strategy game is largely in reference to the notion of military strategy. The entertainment value of these games is closely tied to the notion of strategy as well, as the fun seems to stem from constructing an offensive or defensive strategy for your military forces, and then attempting to execute it successfully. From a design perspective, it is critical that specific attention be directed to understanding the sorts of common strategies that users From: AAAI Technical Report SS-02-01. Compilation copyright © 2002, AAAI (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.