In this paper, we consider the problem of selecting an implementation of each circuit module from a cell library so as to satisfy overall delay and area (or delay and power) requirements. Two versions of the circuit implementation problem, basic circuit implementation problem and the general circuit implementation problem are shown to be NP-hard. A pseudo-polynomial time algorithm for the basic circuit imple- mentation problem on series-parallel circuits is developed, and heuristics for the basic circuit implementation problem on gen- eral circuits are formulated and experimented with. I. INTRODUCTION N THIS PAPER we examine the problem of selecting, I from a precharacterized library, an implementation of each module in a combinatorial logic circuit such that the resulting circuit implementation satisfies the timing and area (power) requirements. While our development ap- plies equally to the cases of satisfying timing and area requirements and satisfying timing and power require- ments, in what follows, we explicitly refer only to the case of satisfying timing and area requirements. Each module may be a simple gate, like AND, OR, NOT, NAND and NOR, or a compound gate which implements a com- plex function like add and subtract. We define the circuit implementation problem as that of selecting an implementation for each of the circuit modules so that the area and delay of the overall circuit are below some specified limits. Two forms of the circuit implementation problem are studied. In the basic circuit implementation problem, the delay between every pair of input-output terminals of a module is the same. In the general circuit implementation problem, the delay be- tween different pairs of input-output terminals of a mod- ule may be different. The former model is more applicable for simple gates and the latter for compound gates. The basic circuit implementation problem is a special case of the general circuit implementation problem. The general circuit implementation problem may be approximated by the basic circuit implementation problem by setting the delay of each module to be the maximum of the input- output delays of that module. However, such an approx-