This paper presents a method for resolving contact in dynamic simulations of articulated figures. It is intended for humanoids with polygonal feet and incorporates Coulomb friction exactly. The proposed technique is based on a constraint selection paradigm. Its implementation offers an exact mode which guarantees correct behavior, as well as an efficiency optimized mode which sacrifices accuracy for a tightly bounded computational burden, thus facilitating batch simulations or the use of highly detailed foot models. The method has been applied to the simulation of two humanoid robots, CB and Hoap-2, and validated with respect to human and robot motions recorded in reality and in simulation. The friction parameters of contact have also been established empirically. I. INTRODUCTION Biped locomotion is a complex mechanism, highly de- pendant on the ground reaction forces exerted under the feet, which support the whole body and are essential in balancing and control. 3D environments often require ac- curate replication of such forces for the sake of visual realism. The fidelity of contact simulation is of even greate r importance for humanoid robot platforms (5), (6) where simulation interfaces provide roboticists with prelimina ry results, prior to testing with a real robot, that are relied u pon to guide the manual modification of control patterns, perfor m comparative tests and train learning systems in a safe and speedy manner. As such, these interfaces enable researchers to develop controllers off-line or gather feedback data wit h a high confidence that identical behaviors will result when controllers re-used in reality. This paper presents a Coulomb friction contact algorithm intended for simulating ground contact within the humanoid robot platform developed by Hale et al. (4). The method yields accurate ground reaction forces, validated against real force-plate measurements, and can be used to implement an interface to a real or simulated robot transparently. It han dles the friction cone exactly and utilizes precise physical dat a specific to ground contact, such as the center of pressure of the feet. Our implementation also facilitates switching between two complementary decision-making components, thus offering a straightforward trade-off between accuracy and speed, as suited to usage requirements.