A flip of a tiling T is a local transformation of T using a bounded number of tiles. For different kinds of tilings (formed from two bars (a horizontal and a vertical one), from triangles and "leaning dominoes", or from "calissous" ), we produce an algorithm of optimal time complexity which, given a pair (T, T r ) of tilings of a same simply connected figure, exhibits a length minimal sequence of flips to transform T into T'. These algorithms are based on the use of tiling groups, and of their quotients and subgroups. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n In 1990, J. H. Conway and J. C. Lagarias [1] introduced the notion of tiling groups, which is a very powerful tool to s tudy tiling problems. Using tiling groups, a lot of necessary conditions for a simply connected figure to be tileable (see [3], [4]) were discovered and unified. This work has been prolonged by W. P. Thurston [6] who especially studied tilings formed from dominoes (i. e. rectangles 2 x 1) and tilings formed from calissons (i. e. lozenges formed from two equilateral triangles of unit side, with a common edge). For these examples, W. P. Thurston introduced the notion of height function associated to a tiling of a simply connected figure. Such a height function maps the tiling to the set Z of relative integers. Using this new notion, the set of tilings can be partially ordered, and a linear algorithms which, given a figure as input, produce a minimal tiling of this figure as output (ff there exists one tiling ; otherwise the claim of the impossibility is the output) are exhibited. W. P. Thurston's ideas have been taken again by C. and R. Kenyon [2], who obtained a tiling algorithm for the case when tilings are formed from m-bars (rectangles of length m and unit width), and E. R6mila [5], who obtained tiling algorithms for the case when tilings are formed from equilateral triangles of side of length 2 and "leaning dominoes" (parallelograms formed from four equilateral triangles whose sides have unit length). In these papers, height functions appear as heights on special trees. ENS-Lyon, CNRS umr 5668, 69364 Lyon cedex 07, France and Grima, IUT Roanne, 42334 Roanne cedex, France Each of these authors also obtains that , given a tiling T of a simply connected figure, there exists a sequence of local transformations, called flips, which permit to transform T into the tiling produced by the algorithm. As a corollary, it follows that, given a pair (T, T') of tilings of a same simply connected figure, there exists a sequence of flips which permit to transform T into T ~. But this method does not give an optimal strategy (i. e. the strategy which uses a minimum number of flips) to transform T into T ~. In this paper, we improve the result stated above, exhibiting an algorithm which, given a pair (T ,T ~) of tilings, produces a sequence of flips, of minimal length, which transforms T into T r. Moreover, this algorithm has an optimal time complexity : O(area of the tiled figure + length of the sequence produced) -O(size of input+size of output), since such an algorithm necessarily has, at least, to read the data and write a solution. The main tool introduced is a particular normal subgroup of the principal quotient group of the tiling group, called Ncell. This subgroup seems to be very useful in the theoretical and practical s tudy of tilings. Thus, the algebraic methods used give some clarifications about the structure of spaces of tilings. This paper is divided as follows : in section 2, we recall the general tools previously introduced by different authors. In section 3, we especially study tilings with bars, introducing the group Ncell, and precisely giving our algorithm. Section 4 is devoted to examples in the triangular lattice (leaning dominoes and triangles, calissons) for which we only give the general framework. 2 Tiling groups a n d t i l ing func t ions 2.1 Ti l ings Let A be the square lattice of the Euclidean plane. A (finite) figure F of A is a (finite) union of closed square cells of A. A figure F is simply connected if F and its complement R 2 F both are connected. A finite simply connected figure F is called a polygon of A. The boundary of a polygon P canonically induces a cycle in A, which is called the boundary cycle of P. A set S of prototiles is a fixed finite set of