1 describe an approach to the problem of forming hypotheses about hidden mechanisms wthin devices — the "black box" problem for physical systems. The approach involves enumerating a set of physical and causal conslrainLs and enumerating difference causal structures for devices, placing an ordering on these hypothesis types, and carefully controlling the generation of hypotheses. I relate in detail the performance of an implemented causal modeling system on the surprisingly puzzling pocket tire gauge. Results from several examples indicate that the ideas presented support capabilities for maintaining manageably sized hypothesis sets and for making fine distinctions among hypotheses. 1. Figuring Out How Things Work The process of constructing and refining physical models to account for observations is an important form of reasoning. In this paper, I investigate the modeling process itself. The domain is mechanical, electrical, and thermal devices — designed physical systems. The research goal is to articulate a set of principles which support capabilities for hypothesizing manageably small sets of physically plausible device models, and for making fine distinctions among those models. I have developed a modeling system — called JACK — which addresses these questions and produces abstract causal models of several physical systems, including a toaster, a pocket tire gauge, a bicycle drive, a refrigerator, and a home heating system. The importance of the modeling problem arises from its ubiquity. The need to understand how things work inevitably arises in the course of other problem solving tasks. In the physical system domain these tasks include diagnosis, monitoring, and design. My approach to making the modeling problem tractable in the physical system domain has two thrusts. One thrust involves applying a set of constraints which embody physical and causal principles to prune hypotheses. The other thrust involves enumerating different forms for hypotheses, placing an ordering on these forms, and using this ordering to carefully control the generation of hypotheses.