This paper presents the design methodology that the author teaches in a junior level Database Management course at ~-and Valley State College. The methodology is heavily grounded in the relational model. Included in the paper is a discussion of critical relationaI model concepts necessary for understanding the methodology. INTRODUCT10N The purpose of this paper is to present the database design methodology that I teach at Grand Valley State Co]]ege in our first Database course. The course is an introduction to the theory and practice of database management. It follows a course in ~hich the students have actually implemented a small database themselves maintaining their own pointers. The database course covers all of the basic models: hierarchical, network (specifically CODASYL), inverted file and relational. The students are required to complete projects which involve a CODASYL database, typically including about 9-10 record types and 10-12 set types. The students use IDS-II, a major CODASYL system, with COBOL as a host and IDP, a query languages on our Honeywell mainframe. In addition they complete projects invoIving the updating of =.and retrieval ~rom a relational database using KnowledgeMan on IBM PC's. This course is followed by a database project course in which the students, working in teams of 5-6 students, complete a major database-oriented project. This project is completed on the mainfrale using COBOL, IDS-II, IDP and several utility tools. This project involves the development of a complete menu-driven, screen-oriented application system supporting full shared update, full on-line help, journaling, and other features of a normal production environment. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is geantod provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. Database design is a crucial topic in the first database course. Though database design is extremely important in its own right, the presence of the project course adds even more importance to the topic. I present an introduction to a variety of database design methodologies, such as the canonical schema of James Martin [I] and the entity-relationship model of Peter Chen [23. Since database design is of very special interest to me, I try to read every book and …