1. Background. Few computer applications can provide the potential for contributing to objectives as valuable as the timely assessment of major crops worldwide, which can help achieve better profits for farmers and, at the same time, assist in alleviating world food supply problems. The application of remote sensing technology to crop condition assessment provides that potential, and the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has for the past four years invested in the development of a minicomputer based system to apply that technology. The state-of-the-art system features a minicomputer network, an agricultural and meteorological database accessed via color graphics displays, and digital image analysis. This paper describes the application and focuses on the design, implementation, and administration of the interactive geographic database which supports crop condition assessment (CADRE, for Crop Assessment Data Retrieval and Evaluation). 2. The Application. 2.1 System Functions. USDA remote sensing analysts of the Foreign Crop Condition Assessment Division (FCCAD) use a network of three Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) PDP 11-70 computers, located in a site near NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, in crop condition assessment. A fourth system is located at USDA facilities in Washington, D. C. Data in any of the systems can be accessed from the others using DECNET software and hardware. Each of the four performs a specific function, as shown in Figure 1 and as described below. 0 The scene processing unit (SPU) extracts digital images of useful dimensions from full scenes of LANDSAT or METSAT imagery. No digital imagery is stored in the CADRE database. 0 The analyst terminal system CATS) is the remote sensing analyst's interface for reviewing and analyzing imagery. The ATS configuration controls three analyst stations; each analyst station includes two CONRAC display consoles for image display, a video monitor and recorder for transferring images to video tape and an alphanumeric terminal for controlling the imagery analysis process. ATS software provides capabilities for displaying and manipulating images, estimating vegetative indexes, and spectral analysis functions. 0 The operational database resides on the user interface system (UIS). Remote sensing analysts access ancillary data in the database either by initiating a report generation task from an alphanumeric terminal or through use of a versatile color graphics display unit which is part of the analyst station. 0 The terminal support system (TSS), DEC PDP 11-34 in Washington, D.C., transmits daily meteorological station data to …