We investigate the performance of flow control and error control protocols and their role in controlling congestion. We address two kinds of packet errors: (a) independent errors and (b) dependent errors. The latter kind are those which are caused by congestion in the system. We consider the go-back-n and the selective repeat protocols for error recovery. The flow control strategy that we study is the sliding-window protocol where we vary the window size as the control parameter. Our performance measure is the expected time and the standard deviation of the time to transmit a large message, consisting of N packets. Previous studies have focussed on either flow control or error control strategies, see for example [Mor 88, MLS 89, TW 79 and Zwa 851. The complexity of analyses has usually precluded simultaneous study of both. One of the main results in this paper shows that under some circumstances the two issues are quasi-independent. For example, to study throughput versus window size for the sliding window flow control protocol using the go-back-n error control strategy, we can study the flow control issue using window models of varying complexity and then combine these results with the term representing the cost of errors due to go-back-n. We next develop a framework to evaluate the two retransmission strategies in presence of windows when packet errors are congestion-dependent. Earlier work on retransmission strategies, for example [MLS 89, TW 79, Zwa 851, have assumed the independence of errors. If the cause of packet errors is random noise in the communications channel, then this is a reasonable assumption. However, in most networks, such random errors are extremely infrequent as compared to packet failures due to lack of availability of buffers because of congestion [Jac 881. This introduces complications in that the premise of independent packet failures is no longer valid. In fact, it is more likely for a failure to occur when one has already occurred than when none has occurred. In our study, we assume an error function p(o), where o is some relevant ‘congestion information’. We then compare the two retransmission strategies for different error functions in the presence of window flow control. In particular, we show when an increase in window size can cause a sharp degradation in performance, and how the two retransmission strategies perform in such a case.