The foreseen evolution of chip architectures to higher number of, heterogeneous, cores, with non-uniform memory and non-coherent caches, brings renewed attention to the use of Software Transactional Memory (STM) as an alternative to lock-based synchronisation. However, STM relies on the possibility of aborting conflicting transactions to maintain data consistency, which impacts on the responsiveness and timing guarantees required by real-time systems. In these systems, contention delays must be (efficiently) limited so that the response times of tasks executing transactions are upperbounded and task sets can be feasibly scheduled. In this paper we defend the role of the transaction contention manager to reduce the number of transaction retries and to help the real-time scheduler assuring schedulability. For such purpose, the contention management policy should be aware of on-line scheduling information. Managing contention of software transactional memory in real-time systems Antonio Barros and Luis Miguel Pinho CISTER Research Center, Polytechnic Institute of Porto, Portugal {amb,lmp}@isep.ipp.pt Abstract—The foreseen evolution of chip architectures toThe foreseen evolution of chip architectures to higher number of, heterogeneous, cores, with non-uniform memory and non-coherent caches, brings renewed attention to the use of Software Transactional Memory (STM) as an alternative to lock-based synchronisation. However, STM relies on the possibility of aborting conflicting transactions to maintain data consistency, which impacts on the responsiveness and timing guarantees required by real-time systems. In these systems, contention delays must be (efficiently) limited so that the response times of tasks executing transactions are upperbounded and task sets can be feasibly scheduled. In this paper we defend the role of the transaction contention manager to reduce the number of transaction retries and to help the real-time scheduler assuring schedulability. For such purpose, the contention management policy should be aware of on-line scheduling information.