Welcome to SIGMETRICS 2015. SIGMETRICS is the flagship conference of the ACM special interest group for the computer systems performance evaluation community. This year marks the forty-second anniversary since SIGMETRICS (under its prior name, SIGME) held the First National SIGME Symposium on Measurement and Evaluation in 1973. The past four decades have seen enormous changes in the field of computer science, but the importance of measurement, modeling, and performance evaluation remains as critical as ever. 
 
This year's conference includes papers on topics that have been a mainstay since the founding of our SIG, including queuing, scheduling, resource allocation, and performance measurement. Application areas that have emerged in recent years, such as data center and cloud, big data, solidstate storage, machine learning, crowdsourcing, energy optimization, continue to be represented in our program. We received 239 submissions to this year's conference, of which 32 appear in the program as full papers, which is a highly competitive acceptance ratio below 14%. An additional 24 submissions appear in the abbreviated form of poster presentations and extended abstracts. 
 
As in some prior years, we performed reviews in three rounds. In the first round, each paper was assigned to three reviewers. In the second round, papers were up for discussion among the reviewers, especially those with highly divergent review opinions. In some cases, additional reviews were necessary to ensure that every paper would receive at least three reviews. Based on this and immediately prior to the TPC meeting, papers were bucketed into "accept", "reject", and "discuss at TPC meeting" buckets. Finally, in the TPC meeting at MIT (Cambridge, MA), we entertained comments and objections on papers in the "accept" and "reject" buckets and discuss all papers in the "discuss at TPC meeting" bucket. 
 
It was no mean feat to winnow a set of nearly two hundred and fifty submissions down to a set of appropriate size for a three-day conference. We offer tremendous thanks to the 57 members of the program committee who collectively performed this daunting task. We are grateful for the support of the SIGMETRICS board during the lengthy process of selecting this year's conference program.