The goal of this work is the specification of a system which extracts 3-D features from images by stereo comparison, and which recognizes objects by comparing these features to geometric models of objects. Models are encoded from hand measurements and consist of piecewise-linear wire frame structures. The work is in progress and some partial results are shown. Bulk correlation methods [4] are used with three images of a scene to insure accurate triangulation for smooth directed edges. The following pictures are obtained: 1. center. 2. scene rotated 20° east. 3. scene rotated 10° north. The program compares center and east pictures for vertical edges and center and north pictures for horizontal edges. perceived edge center lies within a tolerance cylinder about the model edge, and direction cosines agree. The confidence is thus the total length of all matched edges divided by the total length of all scene edges. If this confidence exceeds the last computed value then it becomes the new threshold, and subseguent proposals must either exceed it or be rejected. The match of highest confidence is taken as the correct one, and the model is rotated and projected into the center view for observation (Fig. 2b). Further work is being done on efficient tracking of 3-D edgres and piecewise circular representations for 3-D edges. The ultimate goal is automatic identification of an object in an occluded scene from a model data base. Edge orientation is computed after preprocessing the center picture to find edge chains. An operator developed by Burr [1,2] finds local gradient extrema and tracks them by searching near neighbors (Fig. 1a). These chains are approximated by line segments [3] in Fig. 1b. The edge direction at a node, or line end, is taken as the average of the line direction on each side weighted by its length. Stereo correlation is implemented as a mean-square difference of image intensity over 9 x 9 pixel windows. Search for the minimum in the corresponding view is restricted to a single line segment [4], and further, to locations where the intensity gradient exceeds a threshold. Triangulation determines a 3-D location for each node of Fig. 1b. A separate program attempts to natch this 3-D structure (Fig. 2a) to a model. a. b. Figure 1. a. Thresholded gradient extrema of car image. b. Linear approximation of edges in 1a. Model matching proceeds in two steps as follows: (1) A search …