In this paper I discuss how the Datalog En-glish query system resolves pronominal references to extra-sentential antecedents that represent database records. When the system encounters a pronoun in a query, it searches through saved representations of earlier queries for an antecedent. A number of criteria must be satisfied before a proposed antecedent will be accepted. Among these are satisfaction of the pronoun's grammatical features and tests for contradictions and tautologies. Additional discriminators are applied in the event that there are two competing antecedents being considered. Of special interest is use of a hold queue mechanism which allows relaxation of the grammatical features of number and gender expressed by a personal pronoun. All of the strategies are independent of any application domain and do not fall into those parts of the system that need to be replaced or modified to interface Datalog to a new database. 1 Introduction In this paper I will describe in detail the specific algorithms and heuristics of how pronominal antecedents are found in an English database front end, as currently implemented independently of the domain in the Datalog system [Godden, 1985, Hafner, 1984, Hafner and God-den, 1985]. S ome of the system's abilities in responding to queries with pronouns are shown in (1). The examples of Datalog exchanges are taken from an implementation that interfaces to a simple fictional personnel database. The Datalog system including the pragmatics component is portable in the sense that it may easily be interfaced to other relational databases as well [Hafner and Godden, 1985]. In the examples, user input is in sans serif and Datalog's answers are in slanted type. 1 a. Does Smith work for the same dept as Stevens? No, it's not true for the employee called Smith that department = electronics. What dept does he work for? Note: 'he' refers to a female. Name Department Smith Physics b. Is the avg age of the men in electronics greater than 35? Yes, for the 7 employees where sex is male and dept is electronics, the average age is 45.86 Is it more than the avg age of the women in elec-tronics? Yes, it is true for those employees that average-age > 42 c. How many men work in math? There are 2 employees where sex is male and where department is mathematics. Does Jones work for them? No, it is not true for the employee called Jones that department …