ABSTRACT The paper summarises empirical research that led to guidelines for directing the viewing/reading sequence in multimedia presentations. A method for scripting or evaluating multimedia presentations is described and illustrated with a case study. A design advisor tool based on this work is used to critique a sample MM presentation. A tool validation study with novice designers is reported. KEYWORDS Presentation Design, Guidelines, Tool support INTRODUCTION One of the problems in the design of expository Multimedia (MM) interfaces is knowing whether the presentation will successfully deliver appropriate information to the user. In a review of studies on MM instructional systems, Kozma [6] proposes a ‘micro-level’ approach will be required to produce effective multimedia : ‘...media decisions for integrated multimedia will be micro-level decisions... .._ of appropriate media that can respond to specific cognitive needs and task requirements.’ The problem is thus, what information can the user extract from a presentation, and how can we assist MM designers in making these micro- level decisions when producing their presentations ? Our work has attempted to address these issues by empirically investigating attention to MM presentations and in producing design guidelines. However, experience tells us that guidelines alone are rarely effective. The paper thus also reports research on guideline delivery via methods and tools. The paper has two main sections. The Krst section describes the design method we have developed to encapsulate the guidelines. Results of our previous eye tracking studies on MM presentations are summarised to introduce the guidelines and provide an example application to illustrate operation of the method and tool. The second part of the paper describes a prototype advisor tool which embeds the guidelines as rules. The tool critiques the presentation, providing warnings and advice during authoring. The paper concludes with an evaluation of the tool’s effectiveness in helping novice designers