The use of computers in the workplace has increased our opportunity to open new avenues of employment for handicapped people. However, the full potential of this opportunity is far from being realized. In fact, as Lawrence Scadden points out, some design decisions aimed at improving the interface for the non-disabled user are making those same systems less accessible to those that are handicapped. (" Direct Manipulation " interfaces, for example, present real problems of access for the visually impaired, compared to more traditional keyboard-based interaction.) Our hope for this panel is to increase designers' awareness of issues pertarning to the interface of systems used by physically handicapped indrviduals. We have four main objectives: Director Trace R &D Centre Waisman Center 1500 Highland Avenue Madison Wisconsin 1. To present a basic taxonomy of motor, sensory, and cognitive disabilities and how they affect performance. 2. To familiarize designers with what special interfacing devices are available to the handicapped user, and where these devices and information about them are available. 3. To present the case for a standard interface (hardware and software) for alternative devices on future computers, and to inform the CHI community about efforts in this direction being undertaken by the Department of Education. 4. To help designers better understand the impact of how their decisions will inhibit or facilitate the use of their systems by handicapped users. Within the context of the panel, it is clear that these issues can only be addressed at a very general level The best that we can hope for is to raise the general level of awareness of the issues, and provide pointers to more detailed sources There are two marn sections to the remainder of this written presentation First, we present some Introductory statements of position. Second, we provrde pointers to sources of additional literature and technologies. Innovations in interface technology have advanced to the level where even the most severely physically disabled person can now operate a computer. A few years ago, rehabilitation professionals were asking, " How could a disabled person control a computer? " , and " What could they do once they achieved control? ". Today, a multitude of specialized input systems enable disabled persons to access computers, and they can potentially engage in the same activities as everyone else and a few special applications such as augmentative communication. Now the key question is, " How can someone who …