Introduction: Schemas represent a stable vision of oneself. Young’s schema questionnaire-s3 (YSQ-s3) presents statements of 90 perceptions of oneself, specifying 18 Early Maladaptive Schemas (EMS). We studied the intensity and inter-relations of the 18 EMS and how they pool together into specific dimensions. In doing this research, 1) we want to identify the clusters, the dimensions that would explain most efficiently and economically, all the sufferings and beliefs presented by the patients. 2) We discuss the best understanding for the findings and proposed an interpretation based on Cognitive and Behavioral Therapy (CBT). 3) We speculate that the results and the CBT model could be used to program a “human-like psychology for robots” Method: Two hundred and ninety four subjects (282 patients from a French medical practice in psychiatry and 12 volunteers) filled in a French version of the YSQ-s3. Item scores range from 1 to 6. Only the scores of 4 ‘‘Moderately true of me’’ or higher were kept for the statistical analysis. Data analysis was conducted using descriptive statistics, principal component analysis, and hierarchical clustering analysis. Result: The EMS mean scores ranged from 3.4 to 12.9 and standard deviations from 5.9 to 9.7. EMS score correlations range from 0.009 to 0.55. The principal component analysis, that provides linear combinations of each EMS score, yields only one meaningful component. Indeed, the screen plot that provides the Eigen values associated with each principal component, suggests keeping only the first component. This component presents a size-effect and represents the ‘‘global scores intensity’’. The hierarchical clustering analysis fits the 18 EMS in 5 clusters (r2 =0.4): (1) ‘‘Avoidance’’ (with 3 EMS: emotional deprivation, social isolation/alienation, emotional inhibition), (2)‘‘Give’’ (with 1 EMS: self-sacrifice), (3) ‘‘Take’’ (with 3 EMS: entitlement/grandiosity, insufficient self-control/self-discipline, approval-seeking/recognition-seeking) (4) ‘‘Awareness’’ (with 8 EMS: abandonment/instability, mistrust/abuse, defectiveness/shame, dependence/incompetence, vulnerability to harm or illness, enmeshment/ undeveloped self, failure, subjugation) (5) ‘‘Faith’’ (with 3 EMS: negativity/pessimism, unrelenting standards/hyper-criticalness, punitiveness). When the hierarchical clustering analysis is applied to the population (n = 294), it yields 6 classes of patients. The mean score of the 5 clusters can describe these classes. Discussion: In our understanding the 5 clusters could fit the CBT model in which emotions and cognitions determine the subject’s behavioral response. ‘‘Avoidance, Give, Take’’ represent 3 types of relationship to others (on a behavioral level). The dimension ‘‘Awareness’’ represents the fears and losses (on the emotional level) and ‘‘Faith’’ represents beliefs and consciousness (on the cognitive level). On a psychological perspective this model can be useful to specify personality and clinical disorders in psychiatry. The 5 clusters seem closely related to the 5 sub-scales of the NEO-PI-R (a well established personality scale) and to 4 domains of DSM-5, criteria B for personality disorders (the ongoing research for personality disorder in the fifth version of the Diagnostic System Medical). On a robotic perspective this model may be useful to design robots human-like psychological functioning. keywords: Psychology; Schema therapy; Young schema questionnaire; YSQ-s3; Behavior; Robot psychology; Received: January 30, 2018; Accepted: February 21, 2018; Published: March 07, 2018 *Corresponding author: Francis Lavergne-Holtzer, MD, Medical-Trial, 50 Boulevard Arago, 75013 Paris, France, Tel: 33-(0)6 86 78 06 41; Email: lavergne.francis100@gmail.com