The microwave detection method has several advantages compared with other detection methods. It is able to detect objects without physical contacts, readings are not affected by temperature, humidity, noise, air, dust or light making them suitable for harsh environments and they present strong resistance to radio frequency interference. Microwaves have a wide detection range and velocity equal to the speed of light. This type of sensor is widely used in industrial, transportation and civil applications such as measuring a vehicle’s speed, measuring liquid levels, automatic door motion detection, automatic washing, production line material detection, car reversing sensors, etc.The development of new techniques for the manufacture of antennas and the advance of research in the field of intelligent materials has allowed to increase the possibilities of application of microwave technologies. In the last years several developments are performed this direction. This is the case of Soli,1 a new, robust, high-resolution, low-power, miniature gesture sensing technology for human-computer interaction based on millimeterwave radar. Soli can be used for robust gesture recognition and can track gestures with sub-millimeter accuracy, running at over 10,000 frames per second on embedded hardware. Jiao et al.2 proposes a novel millimeter microwave radar sensor to detect speech signals. The utilization of a high operating frequency and a superheterodyne receiver contributes to the high sensitivity of the radar sensor for small sound vibrations. Biomedical applications are another very important field of application for this type of sensors. Noncontact accurate measurement of cardiopulmonary activity developed with a compact quadrature doppler radar sensor enables reconstruction of chest-wall movement caused by cardiopulmonary activities3 or an X-band microwave life-detection system has been developed for detecting the heartbeat and breathing of human subjects lying on the ground at a distance of about 30 m or located behind a cinder block wall.4 Microwave noninvasive radio frequency biosensors based on microwave impedance spectroscopy are developed to support the monitoring of biosignals and the diagnosis of chronic diseases like diabetes.5,6 In this particular case, optimized patch antennas operating at GHz frequency allow the detection of glucose concentration by means of glucose dependent change on blood dielectric properties.