Introduction The purpose of this panel discussion is to have industry experts present ASPRS mapping professionals with the latest information on LIDAR sensor technology and Digital Elevation Model (DEM) data production work flow. By attending this session, an ASPRS mapping professional will learn about this state of the art elevation mapping technology and be able to better understand the critical factors in digital elevation data acquisition and production for various mapping applications. Introduction Aerial Imaging is in a period of rapid growth and change with new technologies, new customers, and new missions. This session will report on the status of quality assurance and standardization efforts within the US and Canada, current and future trends in aerial data acquisition and application, and the calibration of sensors available in today's market Organized By Sponsored by the ASPRS Primary Data Acquisition Division (PDAD). Introduction Digital airborne sensors have matured over the last few years and have gaining acceptance by the mapping community. This is evidenced by the increase in sales of new sensors, the purchase of multiple sensors by data providers, the introduction of enhanced models by the initial manufacturers of sensors, and the new manufacturers introducing new sensors into the marketplace. However, the use of these new sensors has been for traditional photogrammetric work and the traditional photogrammetric products produced from imagery. Just as there have been many applications that use analog aerial photography, there are as many applications for digital imagery. There are clearly advantages to digital imagery captured directly with today's digital technology, but all the advantages of digital imagery have not been fully exploited. In particular, the traditional remote sensing applications such as spectral analysis, feature extraction, and classification techniques from over four decades of satellite and remote sensing technology have not been widely applied to airborne digital sensors. The outstanding questions to be answered are how well do existing airborne sensors perform for multi-spectral applications and how well do classic classification algorithms and processing techniques work for digital airborne data. Are the techniques used for traditional satellite data immediately applicable to airborne systems? What has been tried and what research remains to be done before the advantage of digital airborne imagery is fully realized. The panel includes representatives from sensor manufacturers, data providers, academia, and end-users who offer their insight in this aspect of digital sensors applications today and in the future.