A range of database services are being offered on clusters of workstations today to meet the demanding needs of applications with voluminous datasets, high computational and I/O requirements and a large number of users. The underlying database engine runs on cost-effective off-the-shelf hardware and software components that may not really be tailored/tuned for these applications. At the same time, many of these databases have legacy codes that may not be easy to modulate based on the evolving capabilities and limitations of clusters. An indepth understanding of the interaction between these database engines and the underlying operating system (OS) can identify a set of characteristics that would be extremely valuable for future research on systems support for these environments. To our knowledge, there is no prior work that has embarked on such a characterization for a clustered database server. Using a public domain version of a commercial clustered database server and TPC-H like1 decision support queries, this paper studies numerous issues by evaluating performance on an off-the-shelf Pentium/Linux cluster connected by Myrinet. The execution profile clearly demonstrates the dominance of the I/O subsystem in the execution, and the importance of the communication subsystem for cluster scalability. In addition to quantifying their importance, this paper provides further details on how these subsystems are exercised by the database engine in terms of characteristics such as request sizes, spatial and temporal distributions. These characteristics provide insight on the benefits of possible optimizations in these subsystems. This includes the potential savings by avoiding copies across protection domains during I/O and the potential reduction in the number of messages by employing multicasts. Mechanisms for performing such optimizations are also discussed. 1These results have not been audited by the Transaction Processing Performance Council and should be denoted as “TPC-H like” workload.