It is well known [Salt, LaYu] that the retrieval of documents stored in clusters allows queries to be answered efficiently. Furthermore, clustered retrieval may sometimes gain in retrieval effectiveness over relevance term weighting [Crof]. It has also been shown [VanR] that clustering of terms, when used properly (e.g. in tree dependence model [HaVa]) will gain significant improvement over retrieval processes based on the independence of terms [RoSp, YuSa]. Although numerous clustering algorithms [Salt, VanR, Ever] have been proposed and tested, the following problems remain : (I) the clustering algorithms are extremely expensive to use, if the number of objects (documents or terms) is large; (2) when the user environment changes, it is necessary to perform reclustering; (3) most clustering algorithms cluster objects based on syntactic relationships between the objects only. Information which is extractable from previous users is ignored. We now propose a clustering algorithm that alleviates the above problems to a certain extent. The algorithm is presented in Section 2. An analysis of the algorithm is s~etched in Section 3 and modifications of the algorithm are given in Section 4. Some preliminary experimental results and analyses ~re provided in Section 5. Remarks are given in Section 6. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. A position in the line (-~ ,~) is assigned to each document. As each query is processed by the information retrieval system, the positions of the retrieved and relevant documents of the query (some of the relevant documents may be identified by a relevance feedback process [RoSa, YuLC]) are modified. The cumulated effect of the modifications for many queries is that the positions of the documents in the same cluster will be close together while the positions of documents in different clusters will be far apart. This allows the clusters of the documents to be easily identified. There is no need to collect query statistics since the significance of query statistics is reflected by the relative positions of the documents. Step I: Initialization The Ith document Ri is initially assigned an arbitrary position Xi in …