Dynamic filters for real-time trajectory generation can be designed in different ways with quite different levels of performances and complexity. However, one can observe that the configurations of such filters are based on two main schemes: systems composed of a chain of integrators with a feedback control and systems formed of a sequence of linear filters disposed in a cascade configuration. According to these schemes, it is possible to obtain minimum-time trajectories under constraints of velocity, acceleration, jerk and even higher derivatives. In both cases, the degree of continuity of the resulting trajectory depends on the ordern of the filter, which can be designed according to a modular approach. After a short overview of the structure of the trajectory generators, pro and cons of the two approaches are analyzed. In particular, the attention is focussed on linear filters, since their structure allows a straightforward characterization of the trajectory from a frequency point of view. As a consequence, the generator can be designed by taking into account frequency constraints, besides more standard time constraints (i.e. limits on velocity, acceleration, etc.). The proposed method combines the advantages of minimum-time trajectories with those of input shaping techniques. Moreover, it is possible to prove that, under additional hypotheses, the same chain of linear filters proposed for minimum-time trajectories generation can be used for obtaining uniform B-spline curves, that are widespread in the robotic field when the interpolation of a set of given viapoints is required. In this case, the additional constraints do not allow to impose limits on the velocity or acceleration, but only to properly shape the trajectory in the frequency domain. It is therefore possible to select the trajectory/filter parameters with the purpose of suppressing residual vibrations, that may be present because elastic phenomena affecting the robotic system. I. I NTRODUCTION Online generation of trajectories subject to kinematic con straints (on velocity, acceleration, jerk, etc.) plays a ce ntral role in all those applications where the motions cannot be planned a priori and must be optimized with respect to the time. Robotic systems are probably the most important example of such applications because their flexibility and the complexity of the required movements. For this reason, a large number of papers addressing this problem is availabl e in the scientific literature tied to the robotic field, both fo r single-axis applications and for multi-axis motions. With respect to this problem, several filters based on control theory have been proposed, see e.g. [1], [2], [3], [4] among many others. These trajectory generators are based on two opposite design philosophies, i.e. closed-loop and open-l oop L. Biagiotti and R. Zanasi are with the Department of Engineering “Enzo Ferrari” (DIEF), University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via Vignolese 905, 41125 Modena, Italy, e-mail : {luigi.biagiotti, roberto.zanasi }@unimore.it. approaches. Both allow to obtain minimum-time trajectorie s compliant with given limits on velocity, acceleration, jer k, etc., by specifying in runtime the desired final position. Additionally, the structure of the dynamic filters has relev ant implications on the spectral content of the motion profile an d can be properly modified in order to take into account frequency specifications and not only time-domain constraints . As a matter of fact, the need of high velocities often leads to the excitation of eigenfrequencies of the machines/robo ts caused by structural flexibilities and may produce vibratio ns and large tracking errors. For this reason, a number of works copes the problem of filtering preplanned trajectories in ord er to reduce residual vibrations. The available methods range from low-pass and notch filters to input shaping techniques, see [5] for a comparative overview, but only recently an online generator, based on a chain of linear filters, that combines the advantages of minimum-time trajectories with those of shaping techniques has been proposed [6]. With some additional constraints on the free parameters of the filters, it is possible to show that open-loop generators for minimum-time trajectories share the same structure of generators for B-splines curves which are extensively used in robotics in order to define smooth trajectories crossing a set of given via-points. Therefore, the considerations an d the techniques used for properly shaping the spectral conte nt of minimum-time motions can be extended to this class of curves. The paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II the main concepts tied to time-optimal trajectories and dynamic filt ers for online trajectory generation are presented, and a genera l overview on closed-loop and open-loop filters is provided. Then, in Sec. III the two different types of trajectory gener ators are compared with respect to the different problems th at they can solve (point-to-point optimal trajectory generat ion, smoothing of pre-planned trajectories, etc.). In Sec. IV op enloop filters are analyzed in the frequency domain and their parameters are set with the purpose of properly shaping the spectrum of the output trajectory. Similar consideratio ns are reported in Sec. V with respect to B-spline trajectory generation. Concluding remarks are reported in the last section. II. OPTIMAL TRAJECTORIES AND DYNAMIC FILTERS The optimization process of trajectories subject to constraints on velocity, acceleration, jerk, etc., leads to th e socalled multi-segment trajectories, i.e. trajectories com p sed by several tracts properly joined, each one characterized b y a specific analytical expression, and in which the velocity, t he Workshop on Robot Motion Planning: Online, Reactive, and in Real-time 2012 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, IROS 2012 Vilamoura, Algarve, Portugal, October 7-12, 2012