CSNET is built on the Department of Defense network (ARPANET), public packet-switched physical networks (Telenet), and a telephone-based relay network (Phonenet). Some CSNET sites have direct connections to ARPANET, some have direct connections to Telenet, and some have connections only to telephone-based relay machines. The chief objective of CSNET is to provide a network interconnection for all groups engaged in Computer Science Research.
 CSNET has adopted TCP/IP as its standard transport level protocols. The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) [POST81] is an end-to-end protocol. It establishes communications between two processes that are running on different machines, detects and corrects errors, controls data flow, and provides reliable communications. Application programs call TCP to transfer data across the network. TCP, in turn, uses the Internet Protocol (IP) [POST81] to send data to the appropriate network. CSNET communications such as file transfer, remote login, and process-to-process communication over the network assume that a TCP interface is available at CSNET sites.
 Since ARPANET sites are required to support the TCP/IP protocols, CSNET sites connected directly to the ARPANET automatically have access to TCP/IP. Phonenet relays connect directly to the ARPANET; they too have access to TCP to relay mail onto the ARPANET. Telenet does not use the TCP/IP protocols. Consequently, CSNET sites that are connected only to Telenet need additional software before they can communicate on CSNET. That software is described in this paper -- it provides an interface between the public packet - switched protocol X.25 [CCITT78] and TCP/IP. Although the design outlined here is applicable to any vendor's system, our implemention is for a Digital Equipment Corporation VAX running the Western Electric UNIX [UNIX78] operating system as modified by the University of California at Berkeley.
 This report focuses on the technical issues involved in building software to interface TCP/IP and X.25. The tariff structure for public networks is discussed only to the extent that it influences our design. Other issues such as access control, and protocol selection are beyond the scope of this report.