We prove a lower bound of 2 f l ( ( ~ ) ~ ) o n t h e m o n o tone size of an explicit function in monotone-Af:P (where n is the number of input variables). This is higher than any previous lower bound on the monotone size of a function. The previous best being a lower bound of about 2 ~('~1⁄4) for Andreev 's function, proved in [A1Bo87]. Our lower bound is proved by the symmetr ic version of Razborov 's method of approximations. However, we present this method in a new and simpler way: Rather than building approximator functions for all the gates in a circuit, we use a gate elimination argument that is based on a Monotone Switching Lemma. The bound applies for a family of functions, each defined by a construction of a small probabil i ty space of c-wise independent random variables. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n A monotone function is one that can be computed by a monotone circuit i.e., a circuit with only AND and OR gates. The monotone size of a function is the smallest number of gates needed in a monotone circuit in order to calculate the function. The use of circuit size as a complexity measure applies for general circuits as well as for monotone ones, but proving the hardness of functions in the general model has seen only little success. The model of monotone computat ion is a restricted model that has a t t rac ted much at tent ion over the years. In this model, strong lower bounds were proved for both the size and the depth of explicit monotone functions. *Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, 76100 Israel. Work supported by an American-Israeli BSF grants 95-00238, 98-00349. mail: {harnik, ranraz}~wisdom.we izmann, ac. il Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed fbr profit or commercial advantage mid that copies bear this notice and the thll citation on file first page. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on selwers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. STOC 2000 Portland Oregon USA Copyright ACM 2000 1-58113-184-4/00/5...$5.00 Although monotone complexity hasn ' t helped in proving bounds for the general model, it has proven valuable in other areas, e.g. in proof theory (see [Pu97] and other references there). We concentrate on the well studied problem of proving lower bounds on the monotone size of an explicit monotone function. In his breakthrough paper in 1985, Razborov [Ra85] proved an n °(l°g n) lower bound on the monotone-size of the Clique function. This was the first super-polynomial bound on the monotone-size of any explicit function. The new bound also introduced the method of approximations, later used also to prove other lower bounds for monotone-size as well as lower bounds in other models (e.g. bounded depth circuits). Shortly after Razborov ' s result, Andreev [An85] used the method of approximations to prove the first exponential lower bound for a somewhat unnatural function, known as Andreev 's function. Later, Alon and Boppana [A1Bo87] improved both results, proving an exponential bound for the Clique function and improving the bound for Andreev 's function. The latter, a lower bound of 2 n('~1⁄4 lv/i~'~), was the highest lower bound on the monotone-size of a function to date. In this paper we prove a higher lower bound of 2 n (( ~ )~) on the monotone size of another explicit