Turbine and compressor blades for jet engines and gas turbines are forged from high-strength alloys and require close control of the process parameters. The design and manufacture of the dies require particular attention, for they impart their geometry to the final product. For precision forging, the die surface must be corrected for local elastic deflections and thermal shrinkage.
 Considering turbine blades as a geometric family, a system of programs was developed to aid in forging process design. Given data on the configuration of the blade, the material properties and the forging conditions, this system of programs calculates (a) the optimum forging plane to minimize lateral forces, (b) the required stock volume and weight, (c) the forging load and the torque on the dies, (d) the optimum flash dimensions for uniform metal flow, (e) the average temperature of the blade during forging and (f) the local stresses and elastic deflections during forging. A simulation of the process aids in preform design and in minimization of flash losses by determining the proper position of the preform in the die.
 This system of programs requires the ability to visualize the forging die to facilitate the design process. Computer graphics has been used in two phases to aid this visualization; first, in the design of the dies using the system and second, in explaining its capabilities to others.
 The first phase relies on the use of interactive graphics techniques to provide information about the die, which includes representations of (a) the preform determined by the programs, (b) the cutter paths necessary to cut the part, and (c) the die itself. Interactive graphics allows the user to make decisions and modify his design rapidly.
 The second phase uses motion picture techniques to present the findings of this project. Computer animation has been added to conventional techniques to help audiences conceptualize the forging process. The animation allows the audience to view the process in slow motion by illustrating metal flow behavior and the variations of die stresses during forging. This technique has proved to be successful in demonstrating the capabilities of the system to a wide range of audiences.