In the design and optimization of artifacts requiring both mechanical and control design, the process is typically divided and performed in separate steps. The physical structure is designed Þrst, a control strategy is selected, and the actual controller is then designed. This paper examines how this separation could affect the overall system design and how the combination of the separate problems into a single decision model could improve the overall design, using an electric DC motor as a case study. The combination is challenging since the two problems often have different design criteria and objectives and mathematical model properties. A Pareto analysis is suggested as a rigorous way to compare a variety of design scenaria. INTRODUCTION Modern mechanical artifacts are increasingly Òsmart.Ó Artifacts are designed to function in a changing environment and to adapt to these environment changes. In creating such artifacts we tend to Þrst Òcreate the designÓ and then Òdesign the control.Ó In fact there are three tasks that must be accomplished: design the artifact (create its topology and embodiment), select a control strategy (identify a theoretical control function), and design the physical controller that will perform this function (create its topology and embodiment). Then we really have three design tasks at hand. There are compelling reasons in current practice that encourage a sequential approach in performing these design tasks. Each task is often difÞcult by itself. Coupling them together could make the design task intractable. Problems with nonlinearities in the control tasks have particular difÞculties. Decision criteria for each design task are often very different, and even competing. However, these same reasons can be viewed as arguing in favor of a combined design process. The initial design of the artifact affects its control characteristics, so if adaptive performance is important and/or expensive, controlrelated design criteria must be incorporated early in the design process. One way to account for the coupling effects is to introduce an iteration. An initial design is created, then its control is designed; the performance of the design under this control is then studied and the design is modiÞed if its controllled response is not satisfactory. Since all these tasks involve decisions, one can formulate an optimal design problem and an optimal control problem. These are solved sequentially, followed possibly by some iterations between the two. One additional issue that comes up in such an approach is the order of the sequence. Should the artifact be designed Þrst and then the control, or vice versa? Would changing the order of solution also change the solution itself? These issues have been addressed primarily in the controls community for some time. Researchers in the areas of structures and mechatronics have brought the issue to the forefront demonstrating in several articles that design and control needs to be considered together as a single optimization problem (see, for example, [, , ]). The literature explores various methods that work under speciÞc circumstances. There is a somewhat ad hoc character in most of the proposed methods in that they do not directly address issues of convergence. The most daunting one in all sequential vs. concurrent design processes is whether the same answer is achieved by either approach, and, if not, is that intentional or not. Theoretical questions, such as under what conditions the answers are the same, quickly follow. This paper begins to explore these questions assuming a design or synthesis point of view. How should the design and control be combined? How can we formulate a combined optimal design and control problem? How does the solution sequence affect the solution? Using a classical example of an electric direct current