The construction of the semantic representation for a natural language sentence or a piece of discourse cannot be covered by the so-called "compositional semantics" alone. In the general case, the non-compositional construction steps of generating quantifier scop-ing and of anaphora resolution have to be included. In order to filter out unnecessary information as soon as possible it is desirable to merge these three phases into one processing step. We describe how the rules for "ex-tended compositional semantics" as presented in ([Pereira, 1990]) can be integrated into a parser for categorial grammar. The inspection of the data flow shows where concurrency can come into play. 1 Introduction The construction of a semantic representation for a natural language sentence involves at least the three steps of 1. "compositional" semantics (constructing a semantic form by the use of conversion) 2. determining the scopes of the quantifiers 3. anaphora resolution The most obvious sequential order of the three steps, which causes the least technical problems for the implementation, is the one given above (cf. [Kamp and Reyle, 1991, Asher and Wada, 1988]). But there are also proposals to merge these operations during processing. [Johnson and Klein, 1986] describe how discourse representation structures (DRS's, see [Kamp and Reyle, 1991]) are constructed during the syntactic processing and how anaphora resolution can *This research has been made possible by a Monbusho-scholarship (Japanese Ministry of Education). I wish to thank Makoto Nagao, Yuji Matsurnoto, and the two anonymous referees. The responsibility for errors resides with me. be integrated into this construction process 1. However, they ignore the problem of generating different quanti-fier scopings. In [Johnson and Kay, 1990], the second phase of the construction of semantic representations (i.e. the generation of quantifier scopings) has been included into the construction procedure where a Definite Clause Grammar (see e.g. [Clocksin and Mellish, 1987]) serves as the syntactic basis. Pereira describes the integration of compositional semantics , quantifier scope generation, and anaphora resolution on an abstract level [Pereira, 1990]. The key idea is that not only one half of a functional calculus should be used, which is the functional application operation conversion) but that the other half, i.e. functional abstraction deserves to be taken under consideration, as well. Functional abstraction, so to speak, allows for hooking up the compositional semantics with the contextual information. The context of an utterance can be considered as a set of additional assumptions which help to …