Secret sharing schemes are methods for distributing data among qualified subsets of parties without reveal ing any information about the data to unqualified parties. They have several interesting real-life applications and axe widely used tools in the construction of cryptographic protocols and promitives. In this paper we study the problem of sharing many secrets, each having its own set of qualified subsets, in a more efficient way than the basic approach of sharing each of the secrets independently. As usually done in the literature, absolute efficiency of schemes is measured in terms of the size of the information distributed to parties. We start by defining a measure of relative efficiency, which we call average improvement ratio. For this measure, we prove a lower bound (implying that any method for sharing many secrets cannot improve the average share size by more than a factor equal to the number of secrets) and a matching upper bound (implying that there exist specifications for sharing many secrets and algorithms for such specifications that essentially achieve the best possible improvement). Our results justify the necessity of non trivial design of algorithms for the sharing of multiple secrets and quantify the achievable efficiency improvement over the trivial design. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n a n d de f in i t i ons Since their introduction [2, 7], an important research area in cryptography has been the construction of efficient algorithms for secret sharing schemes, where the main efficiency parameter is the amount of information distributed to the parties (which affects the storage and communication complexity of the scheme). The literature contains several investigations on finding efficient algorithms (see, e.g., [7, 1, 8]) and even finding lower "-"-¢C'~yright ~) 1999, Teleordia Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. fTelcordia Technologies, Inc., Morristown, N J, 07960-6438, USA, and Computer Science Department, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093-0114. E-mall: giovanni@research.telcordia.com, &iovanni@cs.ucsd.edu. Work done while at Telcordla. bounds on the information distributed to parties (see, e.g., [4, 10, 6, 5]). Let 7 ) -{PI, P2,..., iv,} be a set of n parties; define an access structure .4 as a set of subsets of 7 ). A secret sharing scheme for .4 is a pair of polynomial t ime algorithms: the distribution algorithm 7:) and the reconstruction algorithm 7~. D is used by a dealer to share a secret into many pieces, called shares, each given to one of the parties in P . ~ is used by a subset of parties in ,4 to collect their shares and compute the secret. (:D,7~) has to satisfy two requirements: correctness, saying that subsets of parties in A can always compute the secret using 7~, and security, saying that the shares of subsets of parties not in .4 have distribution independent from the secret. The average share size for ,4 with respect to (T), T~) is the sum, over all participants, of the entropy of each share distributed by :D, divided by the number of participants. The optimal average share size for .4 is the minimum of the latter value, varying over all schemes (:D, 7~). A multi secret sharing scheme (see, e.g., [3, 9]) is the natural extension of a secret sharing scheme to the case in which many secrets need to be shared, each with respect to possibly different access structures. Given access structures `41 , . . .Am over 79, a multi secret sharing scheme (79, 7~) for A1, . . . , .4r, is similarly defined. Here, the correctness requirement says that for each i = 1 , . . . , m , subsets of parties in A can always compute the i-th secret using T~, and the security requirement says that for each i = 1 , . . . , m, the shares of subsets of parties not in .4, reveal no information about the i-th secret other than what is revealed by the secrets determined by such shares; moreover, this holds even if the value of all other secrets is known. Similarly as for (single) secret sharing schemes, we can define the average share size for A1, . . . . `4,~ with respect to (Z), ~ ) and the optimal average share size for A 1 , . . . , .Am. 2 A n efficiency m e a s u r e A basic approach in constructing a multi secret sharing scheme for access structures `41, • • •, ̀ 4m is to use m (single) secret sharing schemes, one for each access structure `4i, for i -1 , . . . , m . Given for each i = 1 , . . . , m a se-