We present a framework foreasoning under uncertainty using mass distributions. Our basic concept is the flow of evidence masses from supersets to subsets which is specified by experts. The expert domain is assumed to have various characteristics so that it can be considered to be a product space with one coordinate for each characteristic. Encoding the qualitative knowledge structure in a dependency network (hypertree) it is possible to describe an efficient propagation algorithm providing mass distributions on each characteristic. This algorithm bases on the computation in (small) subspaces of the product space which reduces its complexity in time as well as in space. It is also easy to make use of parallel computer architectures to improve the efficiency of the algorithm. 1 Introduction The purpose of this paper is to provide a suitable theoretical tool for the treatment of uncertain information which is an important problem in the range of knowledge based systems [Buchanan and Shortliffe, 1984, Kruse et a/., 1991, Pearl, 1988], So subject to our investigations are statements being not simply true or false but with a validity which is a matter of degree. This may be caused by the fact that the statements' truth depends on some underlying random process, that their 'reliability' reflects the subjective estimates of a human decision maker or that the concept of truth itself has to be weakened. Throughout this paper we will restrict ourselves to the treatment of subjective valuations of evidence which requires the use of belief functions [Gordon and Short-measuring the credibility of information although our concept of specialisation is very general and can be applied to probabilities as well as to possibility measures. The expert domain is assumed to be a product space nonempty set. The qualitative dependency structure can be described by a dependency network reflecting dependencies like in the subs pace whereas the quantitative knowledge about the domain is encoded in mass distributions and specialisation matrices quantifying the flow of evidence masses, the concept we prefer to Dempster's rule of conditioning [Shafer, 1976] often applied in the calculus of belief functions. Section 2 to provides a short outline about mass distributions and belief functions. In section 3 we present our main concept: the flow of evidence masses given by a specialisation matrix [Kruse and Schwecke, 1990]. This concept can be applied to revision. In order to structure the knowledge about the qualitative dependencies we make use …