—An essential requirement for the large-scale adoption of Web3 is enabling users to benefit from their data even within already deployed systems. This raises an important open question: how can existing, widely adopted software verify that a user has retrieved specific data from a TLS server? Impressive scientific results (e.g., DECO [CCS20] and the work of Xie et al. [USENIX24]) and industrial products (TLSNotary) have recently made progress in the above challenging direction. However, while they nicely leave TLS servers untouched, the retrieved data is then used in computations with verifiers that are required to run some advanced non-standardized cryptographic schemes (e.g., ZK-SNARKs), which clearly limit the large-scale adoption of the proposed technologies. In this paper, building on top of previous approaches and relying on the recent concept of Predicate Blind Signatures of Fuchsbauer and Wolf [Eurocrypt24], we bypass the limits of prior work by presenting ACTS, a distributed architecture that, while still leaving TLS servers untouched, it allows a user to show possession of data retrieved from TLS servers simply requiring that the software of the verifier can check a standard signature. Our contributions include a round-optimal predicate blind signature protocol that produces standard RSA-PSS signatures. We show how this primitive can be integrated into the DECO architecture (and its successors) to certify data retrieved from TLS servers. Furthermore, we have optimized our construction to make it practical on commodity hardware for a large and significant class of policies implemented by the notary (i.e., the actor that is in charge of obliviously certifying TLS data, therefore preserving data confidentiality). We provide an experimental evaluation on the simple but powerful enough use case of a PDF document downloaded from a TLS server and encoded into an AES-GCM ciphertext. The user will then get a certified PDF through a standard PADES signature added obliviously to the PDF along with some metadata by a notary service. The resulting standard signed PDF document can be transparently verified using off-the-shelf PDF readers. Our experimental validation demonstrates that our architecture is suitable for real-world deployment in concrete scenarios.