—Network protocol implementations are expected to strictly comply with their specifications to ensure reliable and secure communications. However, the inherent ambiguity of natural-language specifications often leads to developers’ misinterpretations, causing protocol implementations to deviate from standard behaviors. These deviations result in subtle non-compliance bugs that can cause interoperability issues and critical security vulnerabilities. Unlike memory corruption bugs, these bugs typically do not exhibit explicit error behaviors, resulting in existing bug oracles being insufficient to thoroughly detect them. Moreover, existing works require heavy manual effort to verify findings and analyze root causes, severely limiting their scalability in practice. In this paper, we present ProtocolGuard, a novel framework that systematically detects non-compliance bugs by combining LLM-guided static analysis with fuzzing-based dynamic verification. ProtocolGuard first extracts normative rules from protocol specifications using a hybrid method, and performs LLM-guided program slicing to extract code slices relevant to each rule. It then leverages LLMs to detect semantic inconsistencies between these rules and code logic, and dynamically verify whether these bugs can be triggered. To facilitate bug verification, ProtocolGuard first uses LLMs to automatically generate assertion statements and instrument the code to turn silent inconsistencies into observable assertion failures. Then, it produces initial test cases that are more likely to trigger the bug with the help of LLMs for dynamic verification. Lastly, ProtocolGuard dynamically tests the instrumented code to confirm bug identification and generate proof-of-concept test cases. We implemented a prototype of ProtocolGuard and evaluated it on 11 widely-used protocol implementations. ProtocolGuard successfully discovered 158 non-compliance bugs with high accuracy, 70 of which have been confirmed, and the majority of which can be converted into assertions and dynamically verified. The comparison with existing state-of-the-art tools demonstrates that ProtocolGuard outperforms them in both precision and recall rates in bug detection capabilities.