Since its creation, Certiﬁcate Transparency (CT) has served as a vital component of the secure web. However, with the increase in TLS adoption, CT has essentially become a defacto log for all newly-created websites, announcing to the public the existence of web endpoints, including those that could have otherwise remained hidden. As a result, web bots can use CT to probe websites in real time, as they are created. Little is known about these bots, their behaviors, and their intentions. In this paper we present C T P OT , a distributed honeypot system which creates new TLS certiﬁcates for the purpose of advertising previously non-existent domains, and records the activity generated towards them from a number of network vantage points. Using C T P OT ,we create 4,657 TLS certiﬁcates over a period of ten weeks, attracting 1.5 million web requests from31,898uniqueIPaddresses. WeﬁndthatCTbotsoccupya distinct subset of the overall web bot population, with less than 2% overlap between IP addresses of CT bots and traditional host-scanning web bots. By creating certiﬁcates with varying content types, we are able to further sub-divide the CT bot population into subsets of varying intentions, revealing a stark contrast in malicious behavior among these groups. Finally, we correlate observed bot IP addresses into campaigns using the ﬁle paths requested by each bot, and ﬁnd 105 malicious campaigns targeting the domains we advertise. Our ﬁndings shed light onto the CT bot ecosystem, revealing that it is not only distinct to that of traditional IP-based bots, but is composed of numerous entities with varying targets and behaviors. Abstract In our paper, “Uninvited Guests: Analyzing the Identity and Behavior of Certiﬁcate Transparency Bots”, we curated an extensive dataset of web requests originating from bots monitoring Certiﬁcate Transparency (CT) logs. In total, we recorded over 1.5 million requests from CT bots, originating from 31,898 unique IP addresses. To assist in the understanding and further exploration of this previously-unexplored population of bots, we are releasing our dataset and domain generation script to researchers. We observed that CT bots can be subdivided into distinct groups based on the types of hosts they target, each with varying behaviors. Using our provided dataset,one can analyze these subsets of CT bots, including the populations of each group and characteristics of the web requests they transmit.