Welcome to ACM MobiCom 2007, the Thirteenth Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, in Montreal, Canada. Continuing the tradition of one of the premier conferences in mobile networking, we have an exciting program on offer with papers, posters and panel, representing the best of today's research in mobile networking and computing!. 
 
We received 233 paper submissions from 28 countries, out of which 26 papers were accepted as full papers and 14 papers were accepted as Extended Abstracts to be presented as posters. The quality of papers was outstanding as usual, forcing many hard choices on the Technical Program Committee (TPC). To select the papers, we employed a three-phase process. First, the TPC selected papers from an access-controlled web site and provided reviews; then, we had an online discussion phase that selected about 80 papers for more detailed discussion; finally, we had a TPC meeting in Evanston, Illinois to discuss and select 40 papers for inclusion in the program, either as full papers or Extended Abstracts. The review process was double blind and every paper received at least three reviews, many received four, and some received five reviews. 
 
As in previous years, we have a Best Student Paper Award. The selection of the best student paper was done in two stages. First, a TPC sub-committee consisting of Farooq Anjum, Suman Banerjee, Sneha Kasera, Ben Liang and Mehul Motani short-listed candidate papers from among all full papers whose primary author was a student. These papers were reviewed in more detail, and discussed, after which consensus was reached on the winning paper. The MobiCom '07 Best Student Paper award goes to "Crossing Over the Bounded Domain: From Exponential To Power-law Inter-meeting Time in MANET" by Han Cai and Do Young Eun from North Carolina State University. Our congratulations to the authors. 
 
Coming to the technical program, we have a wide variety of papers and posters organized into eight sessions over three days. These include poster presentations of Extended Abstracts as well as student posters and demonstrations that were selected using a separate process from the papers. One of the sessions is dedicated to Challenge papers that describe revolutionary new approaches, technologies or visions to stimulate new research directions. We hope that you will find the MobiCom '07 technical program helpful in your research.