On behalf of the Organizing Committee, we are pleased to present the proceedings of the Student Research Workshop held at the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) in Prague, Czech Republic, June 25--27, 2007. The Student ResearchWorkshop is an established tradition at the Annual Meetings of the Association for Computational Linguistics and builds on the success of no less than 16 previous student sessions at ACL meetings. 
 
Students in Computational Linguistics, Natural Language Processing and related fields were offered the possibility to present their work in a setting embedded in the main conference. The workshop plays an integral role in ACL's efforts to build and maintain a research community by investing in young researchers that will shape the field in the years to come. The workshop aimed at providing feedback from senior to beginner researchers. In the call for papers, we explicitly aimed at students in an early stage of their Ph.D. work. We felt that this group could gain the most benefit from this event, as the experts' feedback can still influence their research directions. 
 
The Program Committee was compiled such that about half of the reviewers were students or young researchers, and the other half consisted of senior scientists. This mixture ensures that the scientific quality of reviews is high, while student-specific issues are well understood by the committee members. We are indebted to our 52 reviewers for their elaborate, thoughtful and high quality reviews, which will also be of great help to those students whose work could not be accepted for presentation. 
 
We received 52 submissions from all over the world, of which 16 were accepted for presentation: 9 for oral presentation and 7 for poster presentation. The presentation format was assigned based on thoughts about how the work could be presented best, and does not indicate a quality difference among papers, which are all fixed to the same length of 6 pages.