Welcome to Istanbul and to ACM MobiCom 2012, the 18th Annual Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking. MobiCom is known for top-quality research in mobile computing and networking, and this year is no different. The technical program represents the center of gravity of the conference, and is the result of a seven-month-long effort on behalf of the organizers---and even longer than that on behalf of the submitting authors. We are delighted with this year's program and hope you have a stimulating, enjoyable, and fruitful experience at the conference! 
 
The Call for Papers attracted 212 papers submissions from 26 countries, out of which 32 were selected for inclusion in the program. All papers (except for a small handful that were rejected without review due to format violations) received three initial reviews, and 110 manuscripts were selected for further consideration. These papers received an additional set of reviews, and an online discussion identified 70 manuscripts for further discussion at the in-person PC meeting. The TPC assembled in Austin, Texas, where we crafted the final program over the course of two days. Each paper was reviewed in a double-blind fashion, and TPC members with conflicts of interest were excused from the room during discussion. A senior TPC member managed the review process for papers authored by either of the TPC co-chairs. 
 
We would like to thank the TPC members for their hard work and dedication to the review process. This year marked a return to a smaller PC, which we believe led to increased consistency and a higher energy level in the TPC meeting, but also resulted in a larger reviewing load for the individual members: The average TPC member reviewed 25 papers. We also required attendance at the TPC meeting, which involved significant travel for many international members. Despite the jet lag, the discussions were heated and productive, and we hope you enjoy the results. 
 
Due to logistical constraints, this year's publication schedule was more compact than most. We appreciate the willingness of the authors and shepherds to meet the resulting challenges, including a last-minute change in camera-ready formatting, which led to a slightly more varied paper length in this year's proceedings than is typical.