in recent years after the cloud computing architecture through the fast development period, inevitably exposed in terms of data security problems. The calculated data safety platform in the cloud through several occurred recently, more to deepen some questions about cloud computing. This article from the cloud data security problem of cloud computing, to improve data security measures. Computer network with its huge scale and almost unlimited data resources, in a short period of time more than 20 years of profound influence and change our lives. People gradually understand and accept the new things, and with great application prospect in the. In the face of immeasurable huge economic interests, strong power of technology progress, cloud computing technology has been rapid development. Cloud computing has been an important source of most IT enterprise manager and the industry as the core architecture of next generation network application technology. In the cloud computing environment, people can easily get rid of the traditional architecture is very difficult to break through the technical bottleneck, and at a lower cost investment, in a more convenient way to master far exceed the computing resources and huge storage capacity of the past. Worldwide, many enterprises and research institutions have begun in-depth study for cloud computing, cloud computing data centers have also been around the world is based on the construction, including Google, Amazon, IBM here, some enterprises have already established a cloud computing service platform, the platform can provide large-scale global computing services. According to the forecast, the independent research group Forrester to 2020, global cloud computing market scale will reach $241000000000. With the rapid development of the market for cloud computing, security issues of cloud computing is found, especially data security issues, has become an important factor in the rapid development and popularization of the influence and restriction of cloud computing. In recent years, according to the survey, more than 80% of respondents think the current cloud computing service providers have no way to solve the security problem, the absolute guarantee completely solve the safety hidden trouble and implementing reliability, most users will not give up the use of internal current system. In recent years occurred in the accident, Dropbox Google, Alibaba Cloud, accidents not only cause the individual user data loss, but also to the enterprise users caused great loss of data. Important data loss can lead to unacceptable losses to the enterprise, data security and let many users of cloud computing brings great challenge.