It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2011 ACM Symposium on Ubiquitous Computing -- RDURP'11: The Role of Design on UbiComp Research and Practice. The workshop aims to provide a disciplinary forum for researchers and experts from design, computer science, psychology, and anthropology to exchange ideas on the issue of collaboration. It will build the understanding across disciplines and explore the potential opportunity for design in UbiComp research and practice. Industry has shown the power of collaboration among design, technology, and sociology. Looking at the successful examples in UbiComp products and services such as smart phones and tablet computers, design is always a critical discipline. It brings new insights by integrating many disciplines, and it has been a mediator in speaking to every actor. Therefore, rethinking the construction of the current system and hearing the voice of design will determine the future of UbiComp. Especially in China, it is a challenge as well as an opportunity to balance the western and eastern and the disciplinary differences in the stage of manufacturing boom. 
 
The call for papers attracted submissions from Asia and Europe. The program committee accepted 10 papers that cover a variety of topics, including public service and urban media applications, Chinese social networking services study, the application on developing augmented reality content, experimential artifacts on designing physical mobile technologies, media architecture design and interaction design, tangible and intangible interface design practices. In addition, the program includes a panel on Mapping the Future of The Role of Design in UbiComp Research and Practice, and a keynote speech by Christopher Mustafa Kirwan on Urban Media: A Design Process for the Development of Sustainable Applications for Ubiquitous Computing for Livable Cities. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for researchers and developers from design, computer science, art and other fields that related to this topic.