In this age of large-scale, data-intensive systems, involving rich metadata, information management, and equally large-scale computationally hungry algorithms and analytics, the principles of software engineering are often glossed over at the expense of the latest and greatest "buzzword-compliant" technology. The cloud is that technology. But how can we ignore it? Hundreds of millions of dollars of investment, entire software platforms and technologies, thousands of teams of individuals building cloud software, and entire data centers are part of the cloud. Clearly the domain of cloud computing has eclipsed the ability of software engineering's foundational principles to catch up, and with great reason, based on the economic, societal and scientific impact the cloud has had even within its nascence, and based on the rapidly expanding nature of what is truly enveloped within the domain of cloud software. 
 
What are those key, foundational software-engineering principles though? Rich, detailed design models: mapping of requirements to those models (and vice versa); architectural styles helping to prescribe and guide the constraints of those models, and successful patterns found effective for constructing systems within that domain, to name a few. The core elements of architecture -- components (the units of computation), connectors (the embodiment of interactions amongst components) and configurations, (detailing how to arrange those components and connectors to form an architecture) -- can form an effective platform for modeling and understanding cloud software. 
 
This workshop targets the two aforementioned communities of interest, with the goal of bringing together cloud computing engineers, practitioners, academia and industry alongside software engineering community engineers, practitioners, academia and industry. We understand that there is no time like the present to begin identifying the knowledge gaps, the upcoming future needs and investments, and the research challenges for constructing cloud software. We will discuss a broad variety of topics, ranging from theoretically understanding how to properly migrate non-cloud software applications to the cloud, to understanding what to do when cloud software fails, all the way to several successful cloud architectures and systems that we can draw lessons learned from. 
 
We expect that the participants of the workshop will exchange tribal knowledge and passalong that information in the form of an output report identifying the upcoming key challenges for software engineering research as an enabler for the domain of cloud computing. We are looking forward to a set of interesting research papers, and interactive demos of real-world cloud systems, and looking forward to seeing you all in Hawaii in May 2011