Welcome to the Workshop on Network-I/O Convergence: Experience, Lessons, Implications (NICELI) at SIGCOMM 2003.This year, for the first time, SIGCOMM has enlarged its scope to include several workshops on hot topics. Our goals in creating the NICELI workshop were to raise research community awareness of current industry work on high-speed I/O; to tease out research topics from the current work; and especially to foresee future issues and developments that are likely with the widespread availability of high-speed NICs. NICELI is an opportunity to consider the implications of convergence between networking and I/O technologies, and to report what we have already learned about it.The development of technology to address high-speed networking and I/O has been an interesting interplay between research, industry and science. The problem first arose in the context of scientific computing, which has long needed high-speed I/O. The operating systems community has made progress in developing various approaches over the last 10 years. Recently, vendors have pushed hard to commercialize and commoditize high-speed I/O capabilities, especially those based on RDMA over standard networks. With the imminence of IETF standardization and inexpensive hardware, now is a good time to consider what we have learned, what still needs to be done, and where this new approach might lead us.We received twelve papers, and accepted eight. The quality of the submissions was remarkably high, which allowed us to make our decisions mostly based on which papers best fit the topic of the workshop, rather than based on overall technical quality. We thank all of the authors for their hard work. We used a blind-review process for "technical paper" submissions (author names were unknown to the reviewers), but not for "position papers." Every paper received at least four reviews; most received more. Program Committee members, including the co-chairs, were not allowed to review papers submitted from their own institutions, nor to participate in the discussion of such papers.We are fortunate in having invited talks from two well-known experts. The first talk is by David Cheriton of Stanford University, who is also the SIGCOMM award recipient this year. David has had a rich history of contribution in networking and distributed systems, and initiated original efforts to standardize RDMA in the IETF. The second talk is by Wu-chun Feng of Los Alamos National Laboratory and The Ohio State University, on his extensive work with networking and I/O for scientific applications.