The four Ps of the Marketing Mix are defined as Product, Price, Place and Promotion. The last forty years of engineering design research has seen an increased incorporation of preference into the design process in response to meeting the demands of each ‘P’. This incorporation began with surrogates of preference in Design for Product problem formulations where an objective (such as minimizing weight, for example) represented a firm’s desire to reduce cost and maximize profit. As our community progressed toward Design for Price problem formulations, we began to represent preferences both of the designer – using decision theory techniques – and of the customer – often in the form of random utility models that then informed models of demand. The Design for Market System special session was created in response to our transition to Design for Place, though much work remains to be done. The objective of this paper is to highlight the advancements of the community through the first two P’s (Product and Price) while also highlighting the need, and exciting research opportunities, that exist as we transition to Design for Place and Design for Promotion. INTRODUCTION Over the last four decades, there has been an increased focus on incorporating customer motivation into engineering decisions. Not surprisingly, the methodological development in this area by the engineering design community has followed a trajectory from the product to the customer; i.e., the product is abstracted in terms of its form and function, which in turn may be abstracted in terms of descriptors of customers’ propensity to purchase. As will be showcased throughout the paper, research accomplishments have opened multiple avenues for broadening the socioeconomic impact of engineering design as a discipline. In this paper, we review the research accomplishments in the area of market-based engineering design from the perspective of the Marketing Mix as introduced by McCarthy [1]. These are commonly known as the Four Ps of Marketing: Product, Price, Place, and Promotion. We posit that as the emphasis on integrating the engineering and marketing disciplines has grown over time, the research contributions to this area from the engineering design community have implicitly progressed through the Marketing Mix, beginning with design of the product itself and gradually adding provisions to accommodate price, place, and promotion in engineering design problem formulations. We further intend to demonstrate that explicitly relating available design methodologies to elements of the Marketing Mix serves not only to increase the efficacy of available market-based design methodologies, but also reveals several compelling avenues for future research activity. DESIGN FOR PRODUCT Design for Product is the foundational methodological framework for market-based product design. A Design for Product framework is typically focused on the interaction between system design parameters (x), system attributes (a), the cost of manufacturing and life cycle costs (C), and the exogenous variables (y). While it is often the goal of the firm to maximize the profitability of the product, the research efforts proposed are focused on navigating the tradeoffs that occur at the level of system attributes. In these approaches is often assumed that demand for a product exists in forms such as a procurement contract awarded by the military to design and build an aircraft or set of satisficing specifications have been established in a requirements document [2]. Demand is therefore assumed to be satisfied when requirements are met and corporate preferences drive subsequent design decisions to reduce costs and thereby maximize profit. In keeping with the iterative nature of design that is well established in the literature, design automation techniques often