Welcome to the proceedings of the 44th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education, or SIGCSE 2013, where you will find over one hundred papers as well as multiple other session formats that document the latest in computer science education: research, tool building, teaching, curriculum and philosophy. The theme of this year's symposium is "The Changing Face of Computing", and features a number of talks and sessions focused on how changes in computing technology and changes in student demographics requires a change in the way computing is taught. 
 
SIGCSE 2013's opening keynote session on Thursday will be different from anything seen at SIGCSE previously. It consists of "flash talks" (where several "all stars" in computing will be given five minutes to share 20 slides, each of which automatically advance) that answer the question: "What can WE do to change the face of computing?" Jane Margolis of UCLA will provide SIGCE 2013's closing keynote session on Saturday, where she'll examine how underrepresentation in computing relates to a larger educational crisis and issues we face as world citizens. In addition, during a special keynote session on Friday, Stanford's Provost (John Etchemendy) will discuss whether massively open online courses will change our universities as we know them or be a "flash in the pan". 
 
We are pleased to announce the winners of the two annual SIGCSE awards. Professor Michael Kolling of University of Kent will receive the SIGCSE award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education, and will provide Friday's keynote address. Henry Walker of Grinnell College will accept the lunch for free; SIGCSE Old Timers can purchase a ticket and (a) enjoy a delicious meal, (b) mentor a First Timer, and (c) listen to Professor Walker's talk.) 
 
Symposium statistics are presented in the following table. We thank the authors, reviewers, and Program Committee members whose enormous and vital service generated this program. This year's program includes the usual wide selection of events, including the Evening Reception on Thursday and the ACM SIGCSE Student Research Competition, as well as some unusual offerings, such as the Codebreaker dramadocumentary on Alan Turing's remarkable and tragic life story, a puzzle extravaganza with a raffle for those who complete it, and a CSTA K- 13 Computing Teachers Workshop. Our exhibit hall features a number of exhibitors showcasing the latest in hardware, software tools, textbooks and educational programs and research. We also continue to offer accessibility at SIGCSE 2013 for the deaf and hard of hearing. 
 
We are excited about the variety of pre-symposium events that will exist at SIGCSE 2013. As of the press deadline for this overview, meetings on the following topics will occur on Wednesday: Managing the Academic Career for Women, Open Source Software, Computational Thinking Through Computing and Music, CSAB Computing Accreditation Workshop, Git & GitHub Foundations for Educators, SIGCAS Share and Learn, Using the GENI Networking Testbed, Exploring the Next Generation of Scratch, and Integrating Computing Ethics into the Curriculum.