Diierent types of reasoning have been explored over the years to cope with complicated reasoning problems in plan recognition. reasoning mechanisms are commonly used. There are several issues we are trying to address at present: Does a single type of reasoning reeect the human nature of plan recognition? Can a single type of reasoning eeectively cope with the complexity of computation occurring in plan recognition? Is plan recognition is a process involving in diierent types of reasoning? Some people have viewed plan recognition as an ab-ductive process. When action is observed, if we know that action can be performed by doing action , then we can abductively infer that doing action can be an explanation for doing action. This piece of knowledge is expressed in favour of plan generation rather than plan recognition. The same piece of knowledge can be expressed in a diierent way for plan recognition. We can simply state that doing action generates doing action so that whenever action occurs, we can deductively infer that action occurs simutaneously. Such an inference is obviously better made deductively in plan recognition rather than abductively. There are indeed some inferences in plan recognition, which are better made abductively but not deductively. If we know that doing action can be decomposed into doing some other actions 1 ; 2 ; :::; n , and action i is observed, we can abductively infer that doing action can be an explanation for doing action i. Although this piece of knowledge can be transformed into a form suitable for deductive reasoning Kautz, 1991], it is natural and common for us to apply this piece of knowledge abductively. Although the deductive model of plan recognition Kautz, 1991] has many good features of deduction, it, however, fails to distinguish an individual plan from a set of possible plans no matter how likely this individual plan is and how unlikely other possible plans are as an explanation of some observed actions. In a deductive model, the diierent strengths an action may have support for other actions can not be represented. If action has support for both action and , even though has very strong support for and very weak support for , it can still not be decided that is an explanation of and only a set of and provides an explanation of. Charniak and Goldman's probabilistic model Char-niak and Goldman, 1993] successfully overcomes this limitation with …