The adjunct program has always been a very important part of the UbiComp and Pervasive conference series, and this year is no exception. The conference is preceded by no less than two full days of workshops, featuring 18 one-day workshops, one two-day workshop, and a two-day Doctoral School. Posters, demos, and videos are scheduled at key moments within the main conference schedule: demos form the highlight of the Welcome Reception on the first day, posters are shown in two 2-hour "munch-and-mingle" lunch sessions, and videos are woven into the regular session program. Long-time attendees of the respective conference series have come to appreciate the many opportunities that the adjunct program offers for creating interactions among community members. 
 
This year we received a total number of 202 submissions to the adjunct program: 30 workshop proposals, 27 video submissions, 47 demo submissions, and 98 poster submissions. 
 
The 2013 workshop program is the largest of any previous UbiComp or Pervasive conference. Out of the 21 workshops that were selected, 18 eventually decided to include their papers in this volume and in the ACM Digital Library. The video, demo, and poster program is equally impressive. As in previous years, it was possible to submit one piece of work simultaneously as a video, demo, and poster, giving authors the opportunity to present their work in different presentation formats and ultimately receiving significantly more face-time with conference attendees. Approximately 20% of the video, demo, and poster submissions took advantage of this opportunity, with the combination "poster and demo" being the most popular combination (13 submissions). All submissions were peer-reviewed by at least one reviewer, with two or more reviews being assigned when necessary. We were able to accept 105 submissions (27 demos, 11 videos, and 67 posters), which results in an acceptance rate of 63% for the adjunct track. All associated extended abstracts (4 pages in the SICGHI landscape format) are available through the ACM digital library as part of the Adjunct Proceedings of UbiComp 2013. 
 
As in the past, authors of accepted papers for the main program were able to present their work also in the adjunct track, without submitting a separate extended abstract. Authors of 23 of the 92 accepted full papers and notes took advantage of this option and presented their work also a poster, demo, or video (or a combination of these) at the conference. 
 
Our thanks go to all authors who submitted their work to the UbiComp 2013 adjunct track -- your active participation in this conference series is a key ingredient to its vibrancy and scientific mrelevance. We sincerely hope that you will enjoy the adjunct program as much as we did when organizing it!