We welcome you to the 3nd ACM Workshop on Challenged Networks (CHANTS), the fourth workshop in its series after WDTN 2005 and CHANTS 2006, 2007 focusing on communication in challenged networking environments in general and delay-tolerant networking in particular. 
 
Challenged and delay-tolerant communications are receiving more and more attention. The assumptions of the disruption-prone or opportunistic nature of networking peered with potentially non-existing end-to-end paths are becoming commonly accepted for research in many areas, including (but not limited to) mobile ad-hoc and sensor networks as can be witnessed from many recent publications addressing these issues. Particularly ad-hoc communication among mobile human users with their specific mobility patterns and application demands--for daily life and in extreme situations such as disaster management--has attracted many researchers' attention. We observe how research efforts expand their scope in many ways highly relevant to the future of challenged communications: from synthetic mobility models to realistic ones (e.g., based upon human mobility traces), from routing protocols and optimizations to real applications, from isolated views of individual problems to system and integration aspects, and from simulations to implementations. At the same time, fundamental research on understanding and categorizing algorithms and protocols for challenged networks are pursued to provide a more solid foundation where our current understanding is still in the early stages. 
 
This year's workshop program reflects these trends in a balanced way. A keynote by Prof. Nitin Vaidya will set the stage giving his perspectives on the future research questions at hand. In our sessions, we will cover basic concepts on DTN routing, architecture and deployment, and content dissemination. The 13 papers included in the workshop were selected out of 24 submissions. Each paper received at least three independent single-blind reviews by the TPC. In support of the trend towards implementations, this year's workshop provides a venue for primarily practical and otherwise hard-to-publish results and therefore includes a demonstration session.