This talk covers the original concept and technology of Autonomic Computing which was initiated by IBM in 2001. Although the Autonomic Computing initiative started a decade ago, it has been affecting ways of service delivery, infrastructure, and its architecture in a major way. The talk will elaborate on such influences of Autonomic Computing on the recent computing trends such as Grid Computing, Service Oriented Architecture, Cloud Computing, Cyber Physical Systems, and Smarter Planet. Moreover, it will also cover topics related to dependability. Short Biography Dr. Kazuo Iwano helps Mitsubishi Corporation as an advisor to develop new business opportunities based on information technology focusing on services and infrastructure in society. Before joining Mitsubishi Corporation in March 2012, he had been in IBM and engaged in Research and Development and Emerging Businesses. After graduating Tokyo University in Japan with Mathematics major, he joined IBM Japan in 1975. He acquired Ph. D. in Computer Science from Princeton University in 1987. He was Director of Tokyo Research Laboratory, IBM Research from 1995 to 2000. During his stay in T. J. Watson Research Center from 2000 to 2003, he was a key member of the Autonomic Computing initiative as Director of Autonomic Computing, IBM Research. He was also in charge of Emerging Business in IBM Asia Pacific and Japan from 2002 to 2003 focusing on Autonomic Computing and Grid Computing, and he was in charge of Yamato Software Development from 2003 to 2008. He was, then, in charge of Smarter Cities and Cloud Computing as VP of Smarter Cities CTO and VP, Future Value Creation Team from 2009 to March 2012. His research interest includes combinatorial optimization, cloud computing, and Cyber Physical Systems. He is a member of IEEE, ACM, and SIAM, a fellow of Information Processing Society of Japan since 2003, and an associated member of Science Council of Japan since 2004. He has been a visiting professor of Tokyo Institute of Technology since 2010.