Online social lending is the Web 2.0’s response to classical bank loans. Borrowers publish credit applications on websites which match them with private investors. We point to a conflict between economic interests and privacy goals in online social lending, empirically analyze the effect of data disclosure on credit conditions, and outline directions towards efficient yet privacy-friendly alternative credit markets. “There is no practice more dangerous than that of borrowing money,” said George Washington in 1797. For sure he has not accounted for the privacy risks of 21 st century online social lending, the topic of this paper. Online social lending, also known as peer-to-peer lending, has grown rapidly after the launch of the first commercial platform, UK-based Zopa.com, in 2005. Drawing on concepts of (offline) micro-finance, the idea of social lending is to provide a marketplace for unsecured personal loans: an online platform lets borrowers advertise credit projects to individual lenders, who decide in which project they invest. Credit risk is shared in project-specific pools of lenders; each member funds a small share of the financed amount. As compensation for taking risk, interest is paid to the lenders, whereas platform operators typically charge fixed (i. e., riskfree) fees. The exact market mechanism differs between platforms and has very recently been subject to research in mechanism design (Chen, Ghosh, and Lambert 2009). Independent of the specific mechanism, matching borrowers’ demand with lenders’ supply online sidesteps the traditional role of banks as intermediaries in credit markets. Obviously, this technology-driven paradigm shift in organizing credit markets has a string of economic and social consequences. This paper covers only a small part, namely the role of personal data and the impact of social lending on borrowers’ informational privacy. Borrowers’ privacy is affected since credit applications entail personal data being irrevocably disclosed on the Internet. We will briefly revisit the role of information in credit markets from a privacy protection point of view and contrast it with empirical results from data collected on Smava.de, the largest German social lending platform. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to study social lending from a privacy angle.