This volume contains the proceedings of the 1st International Academic Workshop on Security, Privacy and Dependability for CyberVehicles (CyCAR), co-located with ACM CCS 2013, and held at the Berlin Congress Centre in the East centre of Berlin, Germany, on November 4, 2013. This workshop aims to offer the primary forum where academic and automotive industry researchers discuss, identify and address the challenges related to achieving secure, dependable and privacy-preserving cybervehicle systems. 
 
In response to the call for papers, the program committee received a total of eleven high quality submissions. All submissions received at least three reviews from the eighteen members of the Program Committee chosen by the Program Chairs. Due to the constraints of a one-day workshop, only six out of the eleven papers were accepted. Apart from the accepted papers, the workshop featured one invited paper and two keynote talks. The workshop was opened with an invited talk from Ulrich Huber, Associate principal of McKinsey & Company, responsible for automotive solutions. In his talk "Mobility of the future" Ulrich presented his view on the roadmap of future applications in the area of cyber vehicles and their impact on security and privacy. Invited paper from Ramesh Karri, a Professor at the Polytechnic Institute of New York University, discussed security issues in cyber vehicles. 
 
The highlights of this year's workshop were a diverse program of regular papers submitted by authors from various countries. These papers targeted a broad range of topics related to cyber vehicles including information-flow aware middleware for in-car communication, secure smartphone-based registration and key deployment for vehicle-to-cloud communications, and privacy-preserving charging for eMobility. The included papers also discussed secure storage of private keys for vehicular communication, lightweight secure communication protocols for invehicle sensor networks, and trust assurance levels of cybercars in V2X communication.