Nation-states are increasingly abusing powerful commercial hacking and
spyware tools to covertly surveil and invisibly sabotage entities they
deem political threats, such as investigative journalists, human
rights activists, and lawyers. Tools from companies such as EU-based
FinFisher and Hacking Team, an Israel-based Cyberbit and NSO Group,
allow their government clients to break into targets' computers and
phones, access private files and passwords and even spy on activity
in the vicinity of the device through its webcam and microphone. In
2018, we discovered likely attempts by the Mexican Government to spy
on the phones of the wife and colleagues of a slain journalist, as
well as a Saudi-linked surveillance operation that infected the phone
of one of Jamal Khashoggi's close associates in the weeks leading up
to his assassination.

Our identification of spyware targets is often a laborious process,
driven by close work with targeted communities, and the establishment
of delicate trust relationships which can take months or years to
crystallize. We instruct targets to forward us suspicious links or
attachments (common spyware vectors) for our analysis, and in some
cases, we perform programmatic scanning of targets' email messages and
devices. After we analyze spyware samples, we can perform global
Internet scanning and DNS cache probing to map out the global extent
of the activity. Though our work has uncovered dozens of cases of
commercial spyware abuse around the world, it also suggests that the
scale of the problem is significantly broader.

Compounding the difficulty of identifying targets is a trend towards
the use of unavoidable zero-day zero-click attacks which leave little
or no footprint that a target can notice and flag to us for analysis.
Even in cases where a target is suspicious of compromise, legal and
technical hurdles may preclude us from obtaining corroborating data
from device forensics or cloud platforms. Two reported cases of these
zero-click attacks have been recently documented through careful
journalistic work with knowledgeable sources, including a hack of BBC
and Al Jazeera journalists using an iMessage vulnerability, and a hack
of a human rights lawyer using a WhatsApp vulnerability. These
attacks cannot be prevented by a target's scrupulous security
behaviors, such as screening suspicious messages or installing
updates.

In this talk, we will illustrate the Citizen Lab methodology for
identifying commercial spyware abuses, using cases from our most
recent research, and highlight how developers, platforms, and fellow
researchers can all help in addressing the problem of spies "going
dark." It is clear that business as usual in the commercial spyware
sector threatens our freedoms of thought and action, and perhaps
democracy itself. Academic research, especially that which identifies
specific cases of abuse can be an effective means to create
accountability in the industry, and ultimately put an end to the
misuse of these powerful espionage tools for political gain.

                    
          John Scott-Railton, Citizen Lab
            
  
  
    John Scott-Railton is a Senior Researcher at Citizen Lab (at The
University of Toronto). His work focuses on technological threats in
civil society, including targeted malware operations, cyber militias,
and online disinformation. His greatest hits include a collaboration
with colleague Bill Marczak that uncovered the first iPhone zero-day
and remote jailbreak seen in the wild, as well as the use of Pegasus
spyware to human rights defenders, journalists, and opposition figures
in Mexico, the UAE, Canada, and Saudi Arabia. Other investigations with
Citizen Lab colleagues include the first report of ISIS-led malware
operations, and China's "Great Cannon," the Government of China's
nation-scale DDoS attack. John has also investigated Russian and
Iranian disinformation campaigns, and the manipulation of news
aggregators such as Google News. John has been a fellow at Google
Ideas and Jigsaw at Alphabet. He graduated with a University of
Chicago and a Masters from the University of Michigan. He is
completing a Ph.D. at UCLA. Previously he founded The Voices Projects,
collaborative information feeds that bypassed internet shutdowns in
Libya and Egypt. John's work has been covered by Time Magazine, BBC,
CNN, The Washington Post, and the New York Times.  

        
    



                    
          Bill Marczak, Citizen Lab
            
  
  
    Bill Marczak is a Senior Research Fellow at Citizen Lab, a co-founder
of Bahrain Watch, and a Postdoctoral Researcher at UC Berkeley, where
he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science. His work focuses on defending
against novel technological threats to Internet freedom, including new
censorship and surveillance tools employed by well-resourced actors
against activists and civil society.