After nearly five years and 34 draft versions, standardization of the new connection oriented transport protocol QUIC was finalized in May 2021. Designed as a fundamental network protocol with increased complexity due to the combination of functionality from multiple network stack layers, it has the potential to drastically influence the Internet ecosystem. Nevertheless, even in its early stages, the protocol attracted a variety of parties including large providers. Our study shows, that more than 2.3 M IPv4 and 300k IPv6 addresses support QUIC hosting more than 30 M domains. Using our newly implemented stateful QUIC scanner (QScanner) we are able to successfully scan 26 M targets. We show that TLS as an integral part is similarly configured between QUIC and TLS over TCP stacks for the same target. In comparison, we identify 45 widely varying transport parameter configurations, e.g., with differences in the order of magnitudes for performance relevant parameters. Combining these configurations with HTTP Server header values and associated domains reveals two large edge deployments from Facebook and Google. Thus, while found QUIC deployments are located in 4667 autonomous systems, numerous of these are again operated by large providers. In our experience, IETF QUIC already sees an advanced deployment status mainly driven by large providers. We argue that the current deployment state and diversity of existing implementations and seen configurations solidifies the importance of QUIC as a future research topic. In this work, we provide and evaluate a versatile tool set, to identify QUIC capable hosts and their properties. Besides the stateful QScanner we present and analyze a newly implemented IPv4 and IPv6 ZMap module. We compare it to additional detection methods based on HTTP Alternative Service Header values from HTTP handshakes and DNS scans of the newly drafted HTTPS DNS resource record. While each method reveals unique deployments the latter would allow lightweight scans to detect QUIC capable targets but is drastically biased towards Cloudflare.