We put forward the first non-interactive verifiable secret sharing (NI-VSS) scheme using class groups – we call it cgVSS . Our construction follows the standard framework of encrypting the shares to a set of recipients and generating a non-interactive proof of correct sharing . However, as opposed to prior works, such as Groth’s [Eprint 2021], or Gentry et al.’s [Eurocrypt 2022], we do not require any range proof - this is possible due to the unique structure of class groups, that enables efficient encryption/decryption of large field elements in the exponent of an ElGamal-style encryption scheme. Impor-tantly, this is possible without destroying the additive homomorphic structure, which is required to make the proof-of-correctness highly efficient. This approach not only substantially simplifies the NI-VSS process, but also outperforms the state-of-art schemes significantly. For example, our implementation shows that for a 150 node system cgVSS outperforms (a simplified implementation of) Groth’s protocol in overall communication complexity by 5 . 6x, about 9 . 3 − 9 . 7x in the dealer time and 2 . 4 − 2 . 7x in the receiver time per node. Additionally,weformalizethenotionofpublicverifiability,which enables anyone, possibly outside the participants, to verify the correctness of the dealing. In fact, we re-interpret the notion of public verifiability and extend it to the setting when potentially all recipients may be corrupt and yet can not defy public verifiability – to distinguish with state-of-art we call this strong public verifiability. Our formalization uses the universal composability framework. Finally, through a generic transformation, we obtain a non-interactive distributed key generation (NI-DKG) scheme for threshold systems, where the secret key is the discrete log of the public key. Our security analysis in the VSS-hybrid model uses a formalization that also considers a (strong) public verifiability notion for DKG, even when more than threshold parties are corrupt. Instantiating with cgVSS we obtain the first NI-DKG scheme from class groups – we call it cgDKG .