Many web search queries have implicit intents associated with them that, if detected and used effectively, can be used to improve search quality. For example, a user who enters the query “toyota camry” may wish to find the official web page for the car, reviews about the car, or the location of the closest Toyota dealership. However, since the user only entered a couple of keywords, it may be difficult to accurately determine which of these implicit intents the user actually meant. Given such an ambiguous query, a search engine must use personalization, click information, query log analysis, and other means for determining implicit intent. Rather than solving the general problem of automatically determining user intent, we focus on queries that have a temporally dependent intent. Temporally dependent queries are queries for which the best search results change with time. Simple examples include “new years” and “presidential elections”, which are events that recur over time. The search results for these queries should reflect the freshest, most current results. A slightly more complex example is the query “turkey”. For this query, it may be useful to return turkey recipes or cooking instructions around the Thanksgiving holiday and travel information during peak vacation times. In all of our examples thus far, the events have occurred with (mostly) predictable periodicity. However, for queries such as “oldest person alive”, the best result changes unpredictably, making it difficult for search engines to consistently return correct results. Therefore, temporally dependent queries come in many different forms and pose many challenges to search engines. In this paper, we investigate a subset of temporal queries that we call implicitly year qualified queries. A year qualified query is a query that contains a year. An implicitly year qualified query is a query that does not actually contain a year, but yet the user may have implicitly formulated the query with a specific year in mind. An example implicitly year qualified query is “miss universe”. It is plausible that the user actually meant “miss universe 2008”, “miss universe 2007”, or maybe even“miss universe 1990”, yet did not actu-