The Unisys Semantic Information Manager (SIM) is an objectoriented database management system that supports the usual O-O structures -classes, subclasses, object-reference attributes -but does not have user-defined methods [JAG88]. It has its own languages for object definition and manipulation. SIM provides for general constraint rules in a schema. These are conditions that must be true at all times. They m general expressions and can include aggregate functions, quantifiers, and references to multiple objects. Examples are VERIFY srdary-trend ON Employee: salary< salary OF manager ELSE “Employee must earn less than his manager” and VERIFY salary-range ON Project: MIN(salary of project-employee) > ELSE “Salaries must not ke widely spread SIM recognizes rules that might be violated by an update, either by explicit changes to attributes or by implied changes. The generated code for the update finds the perspectives of these rules and calls stored queries that check the rules. For example, salary-trend could be violated by a change in someone’s salary or a change in the EmployeeManager relationship. If someone’s salary changes, the constraint must be cheeked for that Employee, and, if the Employee has subordinates, for eaeh subordinate also. Beeause a constraint ean involve several objects, and an update can affeet several objects, constraint checks must, in general, be deferred until all objects of the update have been changed. If the constraint fails, the update is rolled back and the caller is notified. In some cases the parser can determine that the rule or some of its clauses are or are not violated, and the parser can simplify or eliminate the rule cheeking code. For example, Srdary-trend does not have to be checked when an Employee is deleted, but salary-range does. Simple constraints can be checked against constant assignments. SIM also has structural constmints, such as required attributes, attribute types, and subranges, which are enforeed by more specitic mechanisms. [JAG88] Jagannathan, et al, SIM: A Database System Based on the Semantic Data Model, Proc. SIGMOD 1988.