We are interested in understanding the exact power randomization provides to online algorithms. We study this problem in terms of computability, using the formulation of online problems as closed or F. infinite games [BBKTW, RaS~. Thus, our discussion will mainly focus on the case when our player follows a computable strategy and the adversary may use any strategy, which formulates the notion of comp u ter against extremely formidable nature. In this context, we say that an infinite game is semicompu tably determinate if either the adversary has a winning strategy or our player has a computable winning strategy. We show that, whereas all open games are semicompu tably determinate, there is a semicomputab]y indeterminate e closed game. Since we want to prove indeterminacy result of closed games and the adversary’s strategy set is uncoun t able and our player’s strategy set is countable, our proof for the indeterminacy result requires a new diagonalization technique, which might be useful in other similar cases. We also show that, there exists an in firlite Fo ,game such that there is a 1– competitive randomized computable strategy, but there is no a— competitive computable deterministic strategy for any a ;> O. A slightly weaker result can be obtained if we insist that the game be closed. By defining a smoothly growing cost function, we can associate an artificial online problem with the game constructed above. For this problem, there is a simple competitive randomized algorithm but no computable competitive deterministic algorithms. We also obtain an indeterminate game for which both players have a simple randomized winning strategy against all the deterministic strategies of the other. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this materitd is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and tfrt! title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy ofherwise, or to republish, requires a fee rind/or specific permission. @ 1991 ACM 089791-397-3/91/0004/0289 $1.50 Section