Single-good ascending auctions, including the English Auction and its close variants (e.g. eBay), are the most widely used type of auction. Hence, effective strategies for such auctions can have an enormous economic impact. To maximize profit, a seller should try to set a reserve price high enough to extract the highest bidder’s full value without blocking the bidder out altogether. In isolated auctions where bidders have static, independent, identically distributed, private values from a known distribution, it is wellunderstood how to compute the optimal reserve price. However, these assumptions rarely hold in practice. First, the value distributions are not known ex ante. Second, auctions rarely run in isolation [2, 7]. Third, value distributions are typically non-stationary. Estimating the value distribution from bids is non-obvious and non-trivial because the distribution of bids is not the same as the distribution of values [4, 6]. Jiang and LeytonBrown [6] addressed how “hidden bids” in online auctions can skew the bidding distribution away from the underlying value distribution. They were able to effectively infer the value distribution when given the parametrized form. Haile and Tamer’s [4] method infers bounds on the distribution, making no a priori assumptions about the bidder valuations and very minimal assumptions about bidder behavior. However, their approach was not complete, as it did not provide a way to choose the reserve price within the bounds. Additionally, neither of the aforementioned approaches addressed the issue of non-isolated auctions or non-stationary distributions. Although Juda and Parkes [7] generalize Haile and Tamer’s work somewhat to allow for bidders that participate in multiple auctions, and Gerding et al. [2] analyzed reserve pricing in the presence of multiple competing auctions, those models are simplifications. Indeed, performing a full game-theoretic analysis of setting reserve prices in a dynamic real-world context is prohibitively complex. We present an automated methodology and system for computing reserve prices for real-world ascending auctions. Our initial system is based on the approach of Haile and Tamer [4], but with the addition of our own technique for