The term "statistical databases" refers to databases that represent statistical or summary information and are used for statistical analysis. Typically, these databases contain quantitative information (such as population counts) and a combination of descriptive information (such as race and sex) for each quantity-tive measure. Examples of statistical databases can be found in many application areas that include:-Scientific databases, such as-Results of experiments; e.g. laboratory animal experiments or chemical tests.-Observations over a period of time; e.g. erosion of materials, atmospheric patterns or seismolo-gical measurements-Socioeconomic databases, such as:-Population or income counts-Health and medical statistics-Commodity flows between geographic regions-Energy production and consumption-Business databases, such as:-Sales forecasting-Financial summary reports. It is generally agreed that conventional DBMSs are in many ways inadequate to manage efficiently these databases [l]. The important issues of managing statistical databases are as follows: 1. What are the characteristics of statistical databases? How are they different from the 'ordinary data-bases'? Some example characteristics are that-they contain a variety of data types such as matrix, vector, set, text and graph, etc.-they very often contain sparse data-they are usually large databases, and as a result, subsets or summary sets are derived 2. What are the important requirements of managing these databases ? Most importantly, what are the areas that conventional DBMSs do not handle well? For example, do we need-data models tailored for statistical databases?-data compression techniques?-better data dictionary facilities?-special hardware (or software) to take advantage of the characteristics of statistical databases? 3. What special techniques have been developed to tackle these problems ? Examples are conceptual modeling tools, metadata/data integration, compression techniques, access and storage methods, security techniques, automatic aggregation and disaggregation and user interface (see [l] for description of these techniques). 4. How difficult is it to extend conventional DBMSs to handle statistical databases? 5. What are the requirements of supporting applications running on statistical databases?-What kind of data management functions are most important to the npplications?-Are there special needs that cannot be sunported by general purpose statistical or data management tools?