At present, modern control systems in a global context are a fundamental role in the development of solutions to problems or problems presented in domestic and industrial applications. The main contributions of modern control systems at industrial level contribute to technological innovation, profitability and maintainability of the processes to which it is controlled. According to Caldas et al.,1 to design a control strategy that guarantees the existing demands, a mathematical model must be available that describes the dynamics of the process. This is based on the mathematical process that can be detected through a dynamic or static system; in short, that effectively controls any variable that occurs within any system using a model that represents its physical structure in communication with the controller of that process. However, this task is complex, because it must be governed by the laws that are involved in each of the processes. In this sense, the identification of dynamic systems provides a tool capable of generating methods that allow in a much simpler way, to establish mathematical models with an adequate level of accuracy. In the company Cmte. Pedro Sotto Alba de Moa, specifically in the process of storage of pulp from the leaching plant, it is important to maintain control of the level of it in the storage tank. To achieve this task, we take into account the available pulp capacity of the Thickeners plant and the one demanded by the Leaching Plant, guaranteeing a certain pulp flow balance. In the PSA Operations Manual (2007), a clear mention is made of the main variables that intervene in the pulp storage process, which covers the plant complex Thickeners Leaching, as well as the characteristics of the process that were taken into account in the present work. The inefficiencies in the control of the level of pulp that takes place in the storage tank of the leaching plant are taken as the research problem. To solve the problem, the objective of the research is to obtain a mathematical model of the process, through the application of experimental identification techniques, which allows the optimal parameters of the system controller to be proposed.