Smart and intelligent buildings are proposed and heavily studied recently to increase building automation, reduce building operation and electricity costs, and enhance human comfort. With the development of infrastructure, standardization, wireless sensing systems, smart phones, etc, many top-up services that were difficult to realize in traditional buildings can be developed nowadays. In this poster, we show a specific example. We design and implement “Carrying My Environment with Me” (CarryEn). The idea is that for human beings who are adapted to their surrounding environment in a building, e.g., their offices, when they move to other rooms, the configuration of their environment can be carried to next rooms. More importantly, such adjustment should be non-intrusive, i.e., people are not aware of the adjustment. The building management systems (BMS) should control the adjustment. (See Fig. 1) Our design has three components: 1) a smart and open BMS (Internet-of-Things oriented); 2) smart phone based application, and 3) environment adjustment algorithms. IoT-enhanced Building Management System: Our IoT based BMS is designed for general purposes, yet CarryEn can become a specific example for using it. It has two features: 1) smart and wireless; and 2) open. Many new BMS are recently proposed, e.g., sMap [1]. Our design differs from them as we convert the traditional wired BMS into smart and wireless without modification of the upper layer building protocols. Thus, it does not need long time for re-standardization. Our design and real deployment can be found in [3]. We recently extend our BMS to make it open. As such, people can develop top-up apps which can interact with the BMS with public protocols. As an example besides CarryEn, Toshiba can monitor its air-conditioners in different buildings using different BMS. It can become part of cyber-physical search in the future as well. Intrinsically, we solve three problems: 1) a universal ID, 2) public protocols to communicate with the smart BMS, and 3) possible service providers to support the data communication. We choose IPv6 as the IDs. As IPv6 is heavy, we use 6Low-