Hyperlink recommendation information is used by current search engines to provide a query-independent measure of document “importance”, and thus improve retrieval effectiveness [1]. However, as yet the research community has been unable to achieve the purported benefits of this evidence [5]. Effective evaluation of query-independent methods is hindered by the many ways in which this evidence can be combined with query-dependent evidence. In this paper we perform an initial study of how query-independent hyperlink recommendation evidence can be effectively combined with query-dependent baselines. We investigate whether hyperlink recommendation evidence is best incorporated as some kind of threshold, providing a minimum basis for query inclusion, or whether it should be included as a component in the document scoring function. Moreover, we investigate whether this evidence should play a large role in choosing candidates for retrieval, or simply be used to re-shuffle or “jitter” documents that already achieve high query dependent scores. PageRank is believed to be an important component of Google’s ranking algorithm and is used to provide a measure as to ‘whether other people on the web consider a page to be a high-quality site worth checking out’ [1]. A number of systematic biases present in query-independent link evidence on the Web have previously been reported in [4]. A bias towards homepages was observed, which is important in navigational search, however the use of URL length measures has previously been observed to provide superior gains [5]. PageRank has been observed to be highly correlated with indegree [5, 4], therefore we do not consider both measures in this work. In these experiments we eliminate the effect of homepage bias to investigate weaknesses introduced through the use of PageRank in navigational search. The task we examine is: Given the name of a company how well different methods retrieve that company’s homepage from the set of all company homepages. We compute three baselines which are then re-ranked by PageRank; content, anchor-text and a combination of content and anchor-text. We retrieved a set of candidate companies from three American stock exchanges; NYSE, NASDAQ and AMEX. For each company we sourced the homepage URL, stock name and homepage content (URLs sourced from http: