A theorem of Markov precisely determines the number r of NEGATION gates necessary and sufficient to compute a system of boolean functions F. For a system of boolean functions on n variables, r ~ [logz(n + 1)1. We call a circuit using the minimum number of NEGATION gates negation-limited. We continue recent investigations into negation-limited circuit complexity, giving both upper and lower bounds. A circuit with inputs xl, . . . . Xn and outputs mzl,...,mzn is called an inven$er, for which r = [logz(n + 1)1. Fischer has constructed negation-limited inverters of size 0(n2 log n) and depth O(log n). Recently, Tanaka and Nishino have reduced the circuit size to O(n log2 n) at the expense of increasing the depth to Iog2 n. We construct negation-limited inverters of size O(n log n), with depth only O(log n), and we conjecture that this is optimal. We also improve a technique of Valiant for constructing monotone circuits for slice functions (introduced by Berkowitz). Next, we investigate the complexity of negationlimited circuits which compute symmetric functions. First, we shall prove a main technical lemma on functions computed at NEGATION gates in negationlimited circuits computing symmetric functions. Using this lemma, we show a number of lower bounds on the size and depth of negation-limited circuits com1School of Mathematics, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, NJ 08540 and DIMACS, Rutgers University, P.O. Box 1179, Piscataway, NJ 08855. Research supported by an NSF Mathematiml Sciences Postdoctoral Fellowship and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. beals~math. ias. edu 2Department of Communications and Systems Engineering, The University of Electro-Communications, Chofu-shi, Tokyo 182, Japan. nishino~su. cas. uec. ac. jp 3 School of Information Science, Japen Advanced Institute of Science and Technology-Hokm-iku, Tatsunokuchi, Ishikawa 92312, Japan. tanaka~jaist .ac. jp Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted providd that the copies are not made or distnbut~ for direct commercial advantage, the ACM COpyri ht notice and the title of the publication and is date appear, a r$notice is given that copyln IS by.permission of the Asso’+ation of ~T*% afeea~lspmlcpemissibn. Machinery. o cop otherwise or to republish, requtres STOC’ 95, Las V as, Nevada, USA Y ~ 1995 ACM O-89 91 -718-9195/0005 ..W.W puting several symmetric functions such as PARITY., -IPARITYn, MOD: and others. For example, a 4rt + 3 log2 (n + 1) – c lower bound is given on the size of circuits computing the PARITYn function using r = [logz(n + 1) -11 NEGATION gates. Furthermore, we show nonlinear lower bounds on the size of certain kinds of negation-limited circuits computing symmetric func-