One of the key challenges autonomous bidding agents face is to determine how to bid on complementary and substitutable goods—i.e., goods with combinato-rial valuations—in simultaneous, or parallel, auctions (SAs). Complementary goods are goods with super-additive valuations: Sub-stitutable goods are goods with subadditive valuations: The simple bidding strategy "for each good x in auction x, bid its (independent) valuation" is inapplicable in this framework. Rather than attempt to reason about the independent valuations of goods, bidding agents that operate in this setting can reason about marginal valuations, or the valuation of a good x relative to a set of goods A r. If an agent holds the goods in A r , it can ask questions such as: "what is the marginal benefit of buying x?" or, "what is the marginal cost of selling xT To do so, the agent must reason about the set of goods or relative to the set X—the valuations of which arc well-defined. In reasoning about sets of goods bidding agents may pose and solve questions such as the following [Green-wald and Boyan, 2001]: 1. "Given only the set of goods I already hold, what is the maximum valuation I can attain, by arranging my individual goods into sets of goods?" 2. "Given the set of goods I already hold, and given market prices and supply, on what set of additional goods should I place bids so as to maximize my utility: i.e., valuation less purchase costs?" 3. "Given the set of goods I already hold, and given market prices, supply, and demand, on what set of goods should I place bids or asks so as to maximize my utility: i.e., valuation plus proceeds less costs?" The third, and most general, of these problems, which we call completion, provides a foundation for bidding strategies in simultaneous single-and double-sided auctions. The second problem, which we term acquisition, provides a foundation for bidding strategies in single-sided auctions. The first problem, allocation, is a special case of the others in which all goods cost either 0 or oo, and all goods are worth either 0 or These so-called bid determination problems are formally defined in [Greenwald and Boyan, 2001], where it is argued that completion can be reduced to acquisition. 1 Bidding Principles This paper advocates the following bidding principle for agents participating in simultaneous auctions for complementary and substitutable goods: "coherent" marginal utility bidding: i.e., bidding marginal utilities …