We introduce a new technique which enables a learner without access to hidden information to learn nearly as well as a learner with access to hidden information. We apply our technique to solve an open problem of Maass and Turh [18], showing that for any concept class F, the least number of queries sufficient for learning F by an algorithm which has access only to arbitrary equivalence queries is at most a factor of 1/ logz (4/3) more than the least number of queries sufficient for learning F by an algorithm which has access to both arbitrary equivalence queries and membership queries. Previously known results imply that the 1/ log2(4/3) in our bound is best possible. We describe analogous results for two generalizations of this model to function learning, and apply those results to bound the difficulty of learning in the harder of these models in terms of the difficulty of learning in the easier model. We bound the difficulty of learning unions of k concepts from a class F in terms of the difficulty of learning F. We bound the difficulty of learning in a noisy environment for deterministic algorithms in terms of the difficulty of learning in a noise-free environment. We apply a variant of our technique to develop an algorithm transformation that allows probabilistic learning algorithms to nearly optimally cope with noise. A second variant enables us to improve a general lower bound of Tm%n [19] for the PAC-learning model (with queries). Finally, we show that logarithmically many membership queries never help to obtain computationally efficient learning algorithms. *Supported by Air Force Office of Scientific Research grant F49620–92–J–0515. Most of this work was done while this author was at TU Graz supported by a Lise Meitner Fellowship from the Fends zur F6rderung der wissenschaftlichen Forschung (Austria). Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association of Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. STOC 945/94 Montreal, Quebec, Canada @ 1994 ACM 0-89791 -663-819410005..$3.50 Duke University