Information retrieval is the selection of documents that are potentially relevant to a user’s information need. Given the vast volume of data stored in modern information retrieval systems, searching the document database requires vast computational resources. To meet these computational demands, various researchers have developed parallel information retrieval systems. As efficient exploitation of parallelism demands fast access to the documents, data organization and placement significantly affect the total processing time. We describe and evaluate a data placement strategy for distributed memory, distributed 1/0 multicomputers. Initially, a formal description of the Multiprocessor Document Allocation Problem (MDAP) and a proof that MDAP is NP Complete are presented. A document allocation algorithm for MDAP based on Genetic Algorithms is developed. This algorithm assumes that the documents are clustered using any one of the many clustering algorithms. We define a cost function for the derived allocation and evaluate the performance of our algorithm using this function. As part of the experimental analysis, the effects of varying the number of documents and their distribution across the clusters as well the exploitation of various differing architectural interconnection topologies are studied. We also experiment with the several parameters common to Genetic Algorithms, e.g., the probability of mutation and the population size. 1.0 Introduction An efficient multiprocessor information retrieval system must maintain a low system response time and require relatively little storage overhead. As the volume of stored data continues to increase daily, the multiprocessor engines must likewise scale to a large number of processors. This demand for system scalability necessitates a distributed memory architecture as a large number of processors is not currently possible in a sharedmemory configuration. A distributed memory system, however, introduces the problem Perrrkion to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appaar, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. @ 1991 ACM 0-89791 -448 -1/91 /0009 /0230 . ..$1 .50 Hava Tova Siegelmann Dept. of Computer Science Rutgers University New Brunswick, NJ 08903 associated with the proper placement of data onto the given architecture. We refer to this problem as the Multiprocessor Document Allocation Problem (MDAP), a derivative of the Mapping Problem originally described by Bokhari [Bok8 1]. We assume a clustered document database. A clustered approach is taken since an index file organization can introduce vast storage overhead (up to roughly 300% according to Haskin [Has8 1]) and a full-text or signature analysis technique results in lengthy search times. In this context, a proper solution to MDAP is any mapping of the documents onto the processors such that the average cluster diameter is kept to a minimum while still providing for an even document distribution across the nodes. To achieve a significant reduction in the total query processing time using parallelism, the allocation of data among the processors should be distributed as evenly as possible and the interprocessor communication among the nodes should be minimized. Achieving such an allocation is NP Complete. Thus, it is necessary to use heuristics to obtain satisfactory mappings, which may indeed be suboptimal. Genetic Algorithms [DeJ89, G0189, Gre85, Gre87, H0187, Rag87] approximate optimal solutions to computationally intractable problems. We develop a genetic algorithm for MDAP and examine the effects of varying the communication cost matrix representing the interprocessor communication topology and the uniformity of the distribution of documents to the clusters. 1.1 Mapping Problem Approximations As the Mapping Problem and some of its derivatives are NP complete, heuristic algorithms are commonly employed to approximate the optimal solutions. Some of these approaches [Bok81, B0188, Lee87] deal, in some manner, This work was partially supported by grants from DCS, Inc. under contract number 5-35071 and the Center for Innovative Technology under contract number 5-34042.