Exploration at the earliest stages of the design pro- cess is an integral component of effective low-power design. Nev- ertheless, superficial high-level analyses with insufficient accuracy are routinely performed. Critical drawbacks of current high-level design aids include a limited scope of application, inac- curacy of estimation, inaccessibility, and steep learning curves. This paper introduces an approach to alleviate these limitations, thus enabling more effective high-level design exploration. A World Wide Web (WWW) based prototype tool called PowerPlay, which encapsulates and enhances these techniques, is presented. Introductionearliest stages of the design process, power, area, and timing estimates are usually effected through first-order manual analyses performed on flow chart representations and/or simplified hardware sketches. These analyses involve the extraction of some critical information, which may include cursory estimates of operation and hardware counts, critical path length, and the manipulation of power, area, and timing models for each hardware module. For example, a high-level power analysis may be obtained by multiply- ing the number of hardware accesses with the estimated power dis- sipation per access. Unfortunately, the accuracy of these estimates is likely to be far lower than desired. Models may be nonexistent, difficult to access, or imprecise. Simulation is usually too time consuming to justify for any but the most critical components and is only feasible after the completion of a considerable portion of the design process. Fur- thermore, because this process is so tedious and time consuming, alternative implementations may often be dismissed without a scru- pulous examination of the potential performance enhancements they may provide. Effective power exploration at the early phases of the design process requires the following enablers to be present: 1. a well-documented and characterized library of modules, 2. a set of modeling techniques, which makes it easy to char-