The Mg software system [3] has been used for several years as a testbed for research into the implementation of large-scale infomation retrieval systems. Initially designed as a platform for experiments with document compression techniques [7, lo], index compression mechanisms [l], and index construction algorithms [4], Mg has also been used as a tool in the study of query evaluation strategies [5, 6, 9, 121 and similarity heuristics [ll]. The Mg system has also been used since the inception of ZVec as the basis of all experimentation done in Melbourne at RMIT and the University of Melbourne, as well as several other centers; and is the engine at the heart of the New Zealand Digital Library [8] at Waikato University. In this demonstration we will display the latest version of Mg, called Teraphim. In designing Temphim we sought to escape from the single-collection paradigm embedded in the original Mg, and instead execute a receptionist process that can connect with-and synthesise query results from-a number of librarian processes, each of which manages a single Mg document collection. The relationship between receptionists and librarians is many-to-many (which is why we have avoided the traditional nomenclature of master/slave or client/server), and each librarian may be simultaneously communicating with a number of different receptionists. This organisation allows maximal flexibility. For example, a user may, as part of the initialisation process, stipulate which subcollections their receptionist is to query, allowing a dynamic selection of databases according to specific needs. Teraphim operates both over high-speed local area networks (indeed, all of the subcollections might be resident on a single machine), and over wide area networks such as the Internet. For example, in initial experiments we have distributed-and successfully queried-a gigabyte of text spread over machines in Australia, Israel, and New Zealand. Teraphim offers a range of configurations: Central Nothing, in which all librarians make use of local weights in evaluating ranked queries; Central Vocabulary, in which the receptionist maintains the union of the librarians’ vocabularies and is thus in a position to set global term weights; and Central Index, in which the receptionist maintains a full index for the combined collection. Details of these various possibilities are described by de Kretser et al. [2]. In the demonstration several giga-