In this demonstration, we present a prototype peer-topeer (P2P) application called PeerDB[2] that provides database capabilities. This system has been developed at the National University of Singapore in collaboration with Fudan University, and is being enhanced with more features and applications. The concept behind PeerDB is similar to the analogy of publishing personal web sites, except that it is now applied to personal databases. Unlike personal web sites which are usually hosted together in a central web server, personal databases are stored in the person’s own PC. In addition, it is increasingly common for people to keep their data in common personal DBMS like MySQL, and MSAccess. Therefore, a PeerDB node allows an user to index and publish his/her personal database for other peers to query. PeerDB builds on and extends BestPeer [1] for DBMS applications. Briefly, BestPeer is a generic P2P system designed to serve as a platform to develop P2P applications easily and efficiently. It has the following features: (1) It employs mobile agents; (2) It shares data at a finer granularity as well as computational power; (3) It can dynamically reconfigure the BestPeer network so that a node is always directly connected to peers that provide the best service; (4) It employs a set of location independent global name lookup (LIGLO) servers to uniquely recognize nodes whose IP addresses may change as a result. In the PeerDB network, a set of PeerDB nodes communicate or share resources with each other. Each node comprises four components that are loosely integrated: (a) a data management system (we used MySQL in our implementation) that facilitates storage, manipulation and retrieval of the data at the node, and the associated local and export dictionaries that reflect the meta-data (schema and keywords); (b) a database agent system called DBAgent that provides the environment for mobile agents to operate on; (c) a cache manager for managing remote meta-data and data in secondary storage; and (d) a user-friendly user interface. PeerDB has several distinguishing features. First, it allows users to query data without knowing the schema of data in other nodes. To address this issue, we adopt an Informa-