This essay is part of a five-year, cross-sector journey. I am an educator and consultant in health care. Prior to this, I was a literacy and education professor and classroom teacher. Brian Street was my professor at University of Pennsylvania’s Graduate School of Education in the Language, Literacy and Education program. Street’s approaches and methods matter to my understandings of literacy—as well as to how I explore others’ understandings of literacy. When I first started to work in the health sector, I was struck (as many others have been) by formal definitions of health literacy because they seemed to invite deficit views of patients (Liebel) and equate literacy with reading. Using some of the ethnographic tools and orientations I learned from Street, I began to understand health literacy as a field of study and also a health topic that many people care about, work on, and work with in various ways and in a range of contexts. In reading research and observing and communicating with people in the fields of medicine and public health, I learned that they know more (and care more) about literacy, composition, and education than is reflected in the dominant conceptions of health literacy. In this essay, I show how health literacy definitions currently reflect an autonomous model of literacy and its drawbacks. I share some of what I have learned from reading, observation, and participation in the health literacy field that suggests health literacy in practice is more complex than definitions reflect or support. I explore the contributions that perspectives from New Literacy Studies (NLS) have made to the field of health literacy by summarizing health literacy writing that is grounded in the ideological model of literacy and utilizes NLS concepts. I then argue an ideological approach to health literacy can support positive health outcomes by increasing available empirical tools and data, and by providing clarity in correctly identifying factors that contribute to health outcomes.