This paper reports on the findings of a survey distributed to the participants of the four formal summer retraining programs in computer science which have graduates in the field. It describes who the retralnees are, what kinds of colleges they serve, and how they feel both about their retraining experience and their new assignments. The academic dean of each participating college was also surveyed, and their assessment of the institutional benefit is presented. The paper concludes that retraining is attracting a very special type of faculty member and is successfully introducing them to computing topics at some depth. INTRODUCTION The shortage of undergraduate computer science faculty which was recognized as so acute in 1981 (Denning) has been unabated in the interim. The production of Ph.Ds. remains constant at under 300 per year (with only half of these staying in academe). Meanwhile, the College Board reports that 40% of the students taking the SAT indicate a preference for studying computing in college. Small colleges which previously could not afford adequate computer hardware are realizing that they Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the © 1985 A C M 0 8 9 7 9 1 1 5 2 0 / 8 5 / 0 0 3 / 0 2 9 2 $ 0 0 . 7 5 292 cannot afford not to offer a computing program. Larger universities are taking steps to curb enrollment in computing majors. For all higher education institutions the lack of competent faculty in computer science has become the limiting resource. In spite of a significant increase in the economic resources being devoted to computing programs, the faculty shortage worsens. Competition with industry has escalated as new areas such as artificial intelligence, UNIX, ADA, and networking are commercially exploited, requiring massive amounts of expertise which have previously been classified as "academic." With the burgeoning interest in educational computer applications, even the computer knowledgeable "teaching" faculty are being lured from the classroom. Several efforts (principally new scholarship funds) have begun to encourage students to stay in graduate school and complete Ph.Ds. (though the increasing demand for this level of training in the private sector, especially on the part of the contributors of many of the scholarships, may result in little increase in faculty). Retraining tackles the problem at the other end, trying to identify committed teachers and return them to the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. classroom with sufficient skills to significantly support the existing computer faculty. Two states, New Jersey and Tennessee, have made such programs public policy, designating a state university to offer the program and providing financial incentives for faculty to participate (Turner). Other retraining programs have won federal (CAUSE, FIPSE) or foundati~ (Alfred P. Sloan) funding by appealing on behalf of the small, private college for access to faculty expertise. The need is so critical that developing colleges under Title III, and many others, have directed a significant portion of their faculty development money to send faculty to unsubsidized retraining experiences. Despite the favorable experience reported by all retrainees, there is no rush to replicate retraining efforts because the resources required to do so are even dearer than those needed for undergraduate programs. In 1985 we will see two new summer retraining programs begin and two established ones discontinue. The four programs surveyed in this paper have each graduated one class, and two of them have graduated two classes. Two, Memphis State and the University of South Carolina at Columbia, are public institutions discontinue summer Clarkson University which have decided to retraining. The other two, and the University of Evansville, are private colleges which have bad considerable success recruiting retrainees from predominantly small, private colleges from across the nation. In this paper no attempt is made to compare the different programs other than to note the demographic characteristics of their audiences. All but Clarks0n award credit and MS degrees for the retraining experlenee, and the topics covered in the degrees are very similar. Clarkson's program is offered under the auspices of a Joint ACM-MAA Committee on Computer Science Retraining, and, with initially 100% funding by the Sloan Foundation, a select group of doctoral-level mathematicans was hand-picked for its first class and offered an appropriately theoretical introduction to computer science. All programs except South Carolina utilized a 15 month retraining program with a project assigned during the academic year. South Carolina required three summers and at least one term of residency for a thesis (the only program to require a thesis, and Memphis State is the only program to require a comprehensie examination). The University of Evansville accepted the most diversely trained participants, but even there the great majority were mathematicans and physical scientists. All the programs addressed participants who already had at least a master's degree. As a group, the participants in the summer retraining programs are relatively homogeneous, as are their colleges, so the observations to be made in this paper will be made in general. THE SURVEY AND DATA ANALYSIS PROCEDURE Participant addresses for the four programs were obtained and a five page questionnaire was sent to each of the 150 participants wlth a second form sent to their dean. 110 participants responded to the initial mailing, and an additional 19 responded to a second request (response rate = 86.5%) • Surveys were also sent to the