The past decade has witnessed a phenomenal growth in the number of users who routinely use the web to obtain information, conduct research, or carry out financial transactions. While the ability of the web to provide customized information and financial services has boosted personal and business productivity, it has raised significant concerns regarding an individual’s privacy. The privacy concerns are exacerbated further with the advent of more complex services that involve multiple service providers, as it raises the potential of personal information being shared across these providers in ways that weren’t intended by the owner of the information. To illustrate the increased privacy concerns raised by composite web-based services, consider a web-based service that allows an individual to research and order over-the-counter medication (or health supplements) at a low cost, while ensuring that there are no adverse interactions based on the individuals current prescription. Such a service will require access to the individual’s personal medical history, and will also require interaction with other entities such as web-based medical references, discount pharmacies and creditcard companies. Users may not want their personal health histories to be shared with discount pharmacies or credit card companies. Similarly, they may not want their credit card information to be shared with providers of free on-line information. Web-based service providers have long recognized the importance of addressing user privacy concerns, and taken steps to state their policies regarding the storage and use of personal user information. Unfortunately, since these policies are stated in English, they are imprecise and ambiguous, posing problems in accountability and enforceability, as well as in checking compatibility between consumer and provider policies. Indeed, the verbose nature of these policies discourage most users from even reading them! To address the above problem, we present a new approach where the consumers as well as providers can express their privacy concerns in a formal way. Specifically, consumers express their requirements in the form of policies, while providers specify their use of consumer data using models. Our approach automates compatibility checking between policies and models. If there is an incompatibility, the consumer is informed how she can refine her policies in order to use the service. If she does not want to change her policies in any way, the approach passes on additional privacy requirements to the provider. Service access can continue in case