In this paper we describe methods for mitigating the degradation in performance caused by high latencies in parallel and distributed networks. Our approach is similar in spirit to the “complementary slackness” technique for latency hiding but has the advantage that the slackness does not need to be provided by the programmer and that large slowdowns are not needed in order to hide the latency. For example, given any algorithm that runs in T steps on an n-node ring with unit link delays, we show how to run the algorithm in O(T) steps on any n-node bounded-degree connected network with average link delay 0(1 ). This is a significant improvement over prior approaches to latency hiding, which require slowdowns proportional to the maximum link delay (which can be quite large in comparison to the average delay). In the case when the network has average link delay L&, our simulation runs in O(&Z’) steps using n/G processors, thereby preserving efficiency. We also show how to simulate an n x n array with unit link delays using slowdown O(df& log513 n) Q ‘2/3 log-sla n)-nodearray with average link on an (n dave delay d~ve. We anticipate that our results wilf be of interest in the context of parallel and distributed computing on networks of workstations (N OWS). NOWS typically *Department of Mathematics and Laboratory for Computer Science, MIT. Supported by NSF contract 9302476-CCR and ARPA contract NOO014-95-1-1246. Email: andrews@ math. mit.edu. i Department of Mathematics and Laboratory for COmputer Sc]ence, MIT. Supported by ARMY grant DAAH0495-1-0607 and ARPA contract NOO014-95-1-1246. Email: ftl@math.mit.edu. $Department of Computer Science, Wellesley College. SUPported by NSF contract 9504421-CCR and ARPA contract NOO014-95-1-1246. Email: pmetaxas@)wellesley. edu. ~Department of Mathematics and Laboratory for Computer Science, MIT. Supported by an NSF graduate fellowship and ARPA contract NOO014-95-1-1246. Emad: ylz@math.mit.edu. Permission to make digital/hard copies of all or part of Uda material for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that the copies are not made or distributed for profit or conunemial advantage, the copyright notice, the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copyright is by perrniaaion of rhe ACM, Inc. To copy othe~is% to republish, to post on servers or to redbdbutc to lists, requires apecdic permission andlor fee. ~TO-C’96, Philadelphia PA,USA Q 1996 ACM ()-89791.785-5/96/()5. .!$3.50 have the luxury of very high bandwidth finks but suffer from latency problems caused by long wires or delays in accessing the network. Our work suggests an approach for overcoming such problems in a waY that can be made transparent to the programmer (e.g., by making the network appear to function as if it were comprised of low-latency links).