In any large engineering school, there are many courses in various disciplines which can be roughly categorized as studies of system dynamics. The computer has long held great promise both as a means for improving the content of such courses and as an aid for improving the methods of teaching. While some of this promise has been realized in isolated cases, very little has been accomplished in universities where large numbers of students are involved. It is certainly true that significant improvement in course content can be achieved by using the computer to solve more meaningful and realistic dynamic problems. For example, the effects of changing the parameters in the problem formulation can be studied. However, with centralized analog and digital computing facilities this can be accomplished only in a very limited way. Problems can be programmed by the instructor and used as a demonstration for the class or the student can program the computer himself. Some demonstrations are useful and desirable but it is impossible to get the student intimately involved, and in most cases they serve only as a supplement to textbook illustrations. Student programming is an excellent approach for advanced undergraduate or graduate courses such as control system design, but it has proven less than satisfactory for first and second year science and engineering courses. Even when the students have had a basic programming course, valuable classroom time must be spent on the techniques for programming, numerical methods, and discussions of debugging. The students tend to become involved in the mechanics of programming at the sacrifice of a serious study of the dynamic system. With inexperienced students, even when turnaround time on the digital computer is good, the elapsed time between problem assignment and a satisfactory solution is much too long. The analig computer, while admittedly an outstanding device for the study of dynamic systems, is usually not available in sufficient quantity for a large class and suffers from the same student programming restriction as the digital.
 We felt that terminals based on an analog or hybrid computer would materially improve student/computer interaction, especially aiding in the comprehension of those dynamic systems described by ordinary differential equations. This paper is a report of the implementation of such a system at N. C. State University. The system was funded by the National Science Foundation with the hardware developed by Electronic Associates Inc. and the software developed by the university.