It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to SIGMETRICS 2008. Performance modeling and measurement are critical in the design and development of information technologies, ranging from computer systems to computer networks and the World Wide Web. Over the past decades we have seen an increasing influence of the modeling and measurement work in various disciplines in computer science. As a result, our community has been growing with broader application backgrounds and technical interests. 
 
This year's conference program is particularly exciting, with a number of new features. For the first time, the main conference has grown to a program of three full days with 36 papers. Also for the first time, we have a demo competition and a student thesis panel. In addition, there are three keynotes given by illustrious scholars from academia, Francois Baccelli (member of the French Academy of Sciences); from a funding agency, Jeannette Wing (Assistant Director of the Computer and Information Science and Engineering Directorate of the National Science Foundation); and from industry, Harrick Vin (Vice President of Research and Development at Tata Consultancy Services). Also new this year is a panel on Performance Analysis in the Real World, where all the panelists come from industrial production environments and will provide an industrial perspective of performance modeling and analysis. 
 
The conference program is further augmented with stimulating tutorials and workshops. This year, there are nine excellent tutorials on topics ranging from analysis and control techniques to performance engineering methodology and network economics. The MAthematical performance Modeling and Analysis (MAMA) workshop continues its success with its 10th edition in 2008. The Workshop on Hot Topics in METRICS (HotMetrics) will be inaugurated immediately after the main conference, in parallel with the third International Workshop on Feedback Control Implementation and Design in Computing Systems and Networks (FeBID). These tutorials and workshops complement the main conference and significantly enhance SIGMETRICS 2008.