Previous work has demonstrated that systems with unencrypted DRAM interfaces are susceptible to cold boot attacks – where the DRAM in a system is frozen to give it sufficient retention time and is then re-read after reboot, or is transferred to an attacker's machine for extracting sensitive data. This method has been shown to be an effective attack vector for extracting disk encryption keys out of locked devices. However, most modern systems incorporate some form of data scrambling into their DRAM interfaces making cold boot attacks challenging. While first added as a measure to improve signal integrity and reduce power supply noise, these scram-blers today serve the added purpose of obscuring the DRAM contents. It has previously been shown that scrambled DDR3 systems do not provide meaningful protection against cold boot attacks. In this paper, we investigate the enhancements that have been introduced in DDR4 memory scramblers in the 6th generation Intel Core (Skylake) processors. We then present an attack that demonstrates these enhanced DDR4 scramblers still do not provide sufficient protection against cold boot attacks. We detail a proof-of-concept attack that extracts memory resident AES keys, including disk encryption keys. The limitations of memory scramblers we point out in this paper motivate the need for strong yet low-overhead full-memory encryption schemes. Existing schemes such as Intel's SGX can effectively prevent such attacks, but have overheads that may not be acceptable for performance-sensitive applications. However, it is possible to deploy a memory encryption scheme that has zero performance overhead by forgoing integrity checking and replay attack protections afforded by Intel SGX. To that end, we present analyses that confirm modern stream ciphers such as ChaCha8 are sufficiently fast that it is now possible to completely overlap keystream generation with DRAM row buffer access latency, thereby enabling the creation of strongly encrypted DRAMs with zero exposed latency. Adopting such low-overhead measures in future generation of products can effectively shut down cold boot attacks in systems where the overhead of existing memory encryption schemes is unacceptable. Furthermore, the emergence of non-volatile DIMMs that fit into DDR4 buses is going to exacerbate the risk of cold boot attacks. Hence, strong full memory encryption is going to be even more crucial on such systems.