This paper describes a new theory of how spreading activation may occur in associative memory models formulated as parallel activation networks. The theory postulates that competition for activation by nodes/concepts in a network is a fundamental principle of memory retrieval. Using only excitatory connections between concepts, a specific implementation of this model is able to demonstrate "virtual lateral inhibition" between competitors and other interesting behaviors that have required use of explicit inhibitory connections in the past. I INTRODUCTION During the last several years there has been a great deal of interest in AI in determining what kinds of parallel architectures best meet the needs of various AI tasks. This paper is concerned with "value-passing systems," networks in which the processing elements communicate by passing around continuous quantities (numbers) and by performing simple arithmetic operations on these values [4]. Such architectures are often intended as models of associative memory, and frequently they are characterized by an analogy with neurobiological networks and processing paradigms. Recent examples include "connectionist models" [5], "interactive activation models" [10], the Boltzman machine [7] and ACT ML This paper presents a new "competition-based" theory about how spreading activation may occur in value-passing associative memory models. First some terminology and the need for a model of spreading activation that can support "virtual lateral inhibition" are discussed. Then a theory is introduced which postulates that competition between cognitive activities for limited resources is a fundamental organizing principle of memory retrieval. A specific instantiation of the theory is used to illustrate the concepts involved. In memory models implemented as value-passing systems, each processing node typically represents a "concept" or "hypothesis", and the level of activation associated with a node represents the relevance of or confidence in the concept/hypothesis represented by that node [1,5,73. For this reason, and because of the distributed nature of the computations involved, the term parallel activation network is used for such models. Nodes communicate with each other using links which have one or more weights associated with them. If the link from node A to node B has a positive weight, indicating that activation of node A tends to increase activation of node B, then such a link is excitatory. Conversely, a negative weight indicates an inhibitory connection. There are both excitatory and inhibitory interconnections at the level of neuronal circuits in the nervous system. It is therefore not surprising that both types of interconnections have been …