The following is a popular hand-held electronic game by Tiger Electronics, called "Lights Out". This game is played on a 5 × 5 grid of buttons which also have lights in them. By pressing a button, its light and those of the (non-diagonally) adjacent buttons will change (switch ON if it was OFF, and vice versa). Given some initial pattern of lights, one has to switch them all OFF by pressing several buttons. Obviously, the game can be played on other boards (indeed, Tiger produced a 6 × 6 version, and even a 3 × 3 x 3 cube version), and naturally generalizes to any graph G. In addition, there are many on-line implementations and other interesting documentation about the game (see [4] and the numerous links therein, or simply search the web for "lights out tiger"). On a more scientific front, "Lights Out" and the questions derived from it (e.g., which configurations can be turned off for which graphs, how many buttons does one have to press, what is the smallest number of lights that can be left ON, etc.) have generated a surprising amount of research (see [5] and the references therein). We shall point out only one somewhat surprising fact, first discovered by Sutner [3], and later simplified by [1, 2]. Namely, while many initial configurations cannot be completely turned off for many graphs G, it turns out that the "all-ON" configuration can always be turned off, for any n-vertex graph G. We will call such a configuration universal. We notice that another (trivial) universal configuration is the "all-OFF" configuration. By looking at the complete graph G (which has only two opposite configurations for any initial configuration of lights), we see that all-ON and all-OFF are the only universal configurations for the "Lights Out" game. "Orbix" is another very similar sounding electronic game produced by Meffert's [6]. Now the basic game is played on the icosahedron rather than a grid. But the rules are the same except for one major difference: pressing a button only changes the state of the neighboring buttons, but not the state of the actual button