In this paper, we describe a formal semantic model that applies to many "classical" planning systems. This gives a unifying framework in which to study diverse planners, and motivates formal logics that can be used to study their properties. As an example of the model's ut i l ­ ity, we present a general t ruth criterion which tests for the necessary t ruth of a proposition at arbitrary points in the planning process. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n In this paper we investigate a formal model for a broad class of A . I . planning systems. We define the range of applicability of our model later; here, we simply note that it is relevant to such well-known "classical" planners as STRIPS [Fikes and Nilsson, 1971], NOAH [Sacerdoti 1977], NONLIN [Tate, 1977], T W E A K [Chapman, 1987 and SIPE [Wilkins, 1988]. Each of these planners has its own very distinctive features. But there are also many similarities, and we can define a useful formal model of the concept of "plan" used by all of them. The model can be used to provide semantics for much of the planning process. That is, we can develop a logic which is interpreted as making assertions about plans. Relative to the model and the logic, claims about particular plans or planning systems can be proven true or false. Section 3 gives a concrete application of this: we develop a truth criterion for a broad class of planning systems. The concept of a t ru th criterion (TC) is due to Chapman [Chapman, 1987]. In fact, many of the ideas in this paper were inspired by Chapman's work and so we spend the rest of this introduction contrasting the goals of his work and ours. In general, a planner's t ru th criterion is the test it uses to check whether a particular proposition holds at some point in a proposed plan. It is easy to see how impor­ tant this test is. For example, we are always interested *The first author was partially supported by NASA Grant NCC2-494 and by Texas Instruments Contract No. 7554900. The second author is supported by an IBM Grad­ uate Fellowship. Present address: Teknekron, 530 Lytton Ave, Palo Alto, CA 94301. 246 Automated Reasoning Classical Planning*