This paper proposes a solution to a shortcoming in the standard model of the undergraduate computer science curriculum. The author's position is that our current overview of computer science (as presented in the introductory computer science course) is too narrow and restrictive. In order to survey the field and lay a foundational core of knowledge upon which to build, computer science students must see and experience the broad range of topics which computer science encompasses. To that end, the curricular content of an Introduction to Computer Science course will be outlined. Current Situation A typical first course in the undergraduate computer science program is usually entitled " Introduction to Computing} " Introduction to Computer Systems, " " Introduction to Computer Science, " or simply " CS1''.[l] Most other undergraduate disciplines have a similar overview or survey course so the existence of CS1 should come as no surprise. However, the content of the introductory course may surprise someone from outside of the field. Both the ACM and IEEE-CS have produced model curricula in computer science. [2] Both of the specified introductory courses consist of two main topics: algorithms and problem-solving via a programming language. Both ACMS CS1 course and IEEE-CS'S SA1 course devote (approximately) 75% of their time to Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. algorithms and programming languages. Indeed, both algorithms and problem-solving via programming languages are at the heart of computer science. Both of these topics are absolutely necessary as the core of an entire CS curriculum. The question is are these topics sufficient to provide an overview and solid foundation for the discipline of computer science? Since computer systems are tools for solving problems, the study of algorithms is certainly a vital topic. Algorithms form the basis of both the creation and the use of computer systems. Solving problems by the application of a programming language (a strict instance of an algorithm) is also central to computer science. However, whale all aspects of computer science seem to involve algorithms, not all areas involve the use of a …