As critical records are increasingly stored in electronic form, which tends to make for easy destruction and clandestine modification, it is imperative that they be properly managed to preserve their trustworthiness, i.e., their ability to provide irrefutable proof and accurate details of events that have occurred. The need for proper record keeping is further underscored by the recent corporate misconduct and ensuing attempts to destroy incriminating records. Currently, the industry practice and regulatory requirements (e.g., SEC Rule 17a-4) rely on storing records in WORM storage to immutably preserve the records. In this paper, we contend that simply storing records in WORM storage is increasingly inadequate to ensure that they are trustworthy. Specifically, with the large volume of records that are typical today, meeting the ever more stringent query response time requires the use of direct access mechanisms such as indexes. Relying on indexes for accessing records could, however, provide a means for effectively altering or deleting records, even those stored in WORM storage.In this paper, we establish the key requirements for a fossilized index that protects the records from such logical modification. We also analyze current indexing methods to determine how they fall short of these requirements. Based on our insights, we propose the Generalized Hash Tree (GHT). Using both theoretical analysis and simulations with real system data, we demonstrate that the GHT can satisfy the requirements of a fossilized index with performance and cost that are comparable to regular indexing techniques such as the B-tree. We further note that as records are indexed on multiple fields to facilitate search and retrieval, the records can be reconstructed from the corresponding index entries even after the records expire and are disposed of, Therefore, we also present a novel method to eliminate this disclosure risk by allowing an index entry to be effectively disposed of when its record expires.