It is our great pleasure to bring you the proceedings for the 14th ACM Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services (ACM MobiSys 2016). We hope you enjoy this technical material behind the conference that attracts a diverse set of attendees from both academia and industry and is a leading venue for publications and idea exchange on mobile systems. ACM MobiSys 2016 has a highly selective, single-track program featuring research related to mobile systems and applications. It is an ideal venue to address research challenges facing the design, development, deployment, use, and fundamental limits of these systems. 
 
Our paper review process this year was highly selective. Out of 197 submissions, the technical program committee accepted only 31 for publication and presentation as full papers, yielding an acceptance rate around 15.73%. Submitted papers underwent a rigorous, multistage review process. First, we checked all submissions for compliance, general quality, and topic match. We administratively rejected those not meeting our submission criteria. We assigned 3 reviewers to papers that survived this stage from the program committee and the external review committee. At the conclusion of this stage, those papers where none of the reviewers recommended acceptance were rejected. We then assigned at least 2 additional reviewers from the program committee to papers that survived, thus totaling at least 5 reviews per paper. An online discussion phase then ensued, resulting in the PC recommending 59 papers for discussion at the PC meeting. The PC meeting was held in person in St. Augustine, FL, USA, the day before ACM HotMobile 2016. At the conclusion of the PC meeting, we tentatively accepted 31 papers to the conference. All tentatively accepted papers were assigned shepherds to help ensure that the authors produce a final manuscript that satisfactorily addresses reviewer comments. All shepherded papers were ultimately accepted to the conference. 
 
Our program this year covers an exciting set of topics including operating systems, transport, networking, sensing, security and privacy. It also includes a poster/demo session, a panel, and keynote speakers.