We propose a new procedure for proof by induction in conditional theories where case analysis is simulated by term rewriting. This technique reduces considerably the number of variables of a conjecture to be considered for applying induction schemes (inductive positions). Our procedure is presented as a set of inference rules whose correctness has been formally proved. Moreover, when the axioms are ground conver-gent and the defined functions are completely defined over free constructors, it is possible to apply the system for refuting conjectures. The procedure is even refutationally complete for conditional equations with boolean preconditions (under the same hypotheses). The method is entirely implemented in the prover SPIKE. This system has proved interesting examples in a completely automatic way, that is, without interaction with the user and without ad-hoc heuristics. It has also proved the challenging Gilbreath card trick, with only 5 easy lemmas. 1 Introduction Formal methods are more and more frequently adopted by industry for hardware and software verification. They require efficient automatic tools to relieve designers and programmers of the related proof obligations. Mathematical induction is essential as a technique for building formal proofs in this context. Its power is expressed by the successes of Nqthm [Boyer and Moore, 1979] that has been for many years the only significant automated theorem proving system for induction. However Nqthm requires a lot of interaction with the user. For instance many lemmas need to be given to Nqthm as milestones even for simple proof tasks. Another direction for automating induction was proposed in the early eighties, the inductionless indue-Hon technique [Musser, 1980; Huet and Hullot, 1982] whose principle is to simulate induction by term rewriting. This method is refutational and does not require human interaction. While very limited at the beginning , its domain of application has widened considerably, thanks to the contributions of [Jouannaud and Kounalis, 1986] who relaxed the conditions on constructor symbols and of [Fribourg, 1986] who showed that only linear derivations were needed. More recently the method has been completely freed from the completion frame-It has now become possible to apply it to conditional equational theories [Kounalis and Rusinowitch, 1990b; Bouhoula et al., 1992a]. Inductionless induction in our new setting reduces to firstly instanciating conjectures by induction schemes called test sets and secondly simplifying them by axioms, other conjectures or induction hypotheses. Every iteration generates new lemmas that are processed in the same way as the …