Experimental facilites (or testbeds) are instrumental in the development and evaluation of new Internet technologies. Evaluations based on simulation and emulation do provide valuable, yet inexpensive insight into the performance of new networking technologies at large scales. However, simulators and emulators inherently make simplifying model assumptions. Thus, convincing the networking industry and community to widely adopt and deploy new algorithms or mechanisms also requires comprehensive analysis in real-world settings. Supporting researchers in developing and conducting these experiments is challenging—particularly on mobile testbeds, where nodes may be disconnected from the control network and node movemenets may not be under the control of experimenters. Some tools have been developed for existing mobile testbeds [1], but to our knowledge no comprehensive framework has been developed. Our cOntrol and Management Framework (OMF) is a suite of software components which provide control, measurement, and management tools & services to users and operators of networking testbeds to address this need. A key feature of OMF is that it facilitates describing software installations, experiment workloads and actions, and measurement collection in a single integrated experiment description (script). This experiment description can then also serves to document the experiment and can be shared with other researchers to allow repeating the experiment. We hope that this will aid the development of a culture of rigorous peer verification of experimental results and increase the scientific rigour of our field. Specifically for mobile testbeds, OMF provides time-based scripting and automated caching of experiment results to allow experiments to continue when nodes are disconnected from the control network. Additional functions such as location-based scripting are currently under development. OMF was originally developed for the (stationary) ORBIT wireless testbed at Winlab, Rutgers University. Through active development and extensions at NICTA, it has now evolved into an independent framework, which supports heterogenous wired or wireless resources. OMF is one of the candidates currently being evaluated as potential testbed