Among the companies that design or want to design VSLI logic, how design time and cost affect profit depends on the nature of their products and their business. The merchant IC houses, National, TI, Intel, etc., are very concerned with chip area, hence cost, because their end products are chips or systems whose cost is mostly from chips. In addition, the high volume of parts sold means that a small reduction in area and cost can result in higher profit. On the other hand, system houses, such as IBM, Xerox, and HP, are using chips more for their technical contributions. The chip cost relative to the final system cost (including hardware and software) may be insignificant. No wonder the CAD tools perceived by these two types of companies are different. No one CAD tool or methodology can satisfy this diversity; a spectrum of trade-offs of design time vs. chip density exists.
 At IBM and other systems houses, total layout synthesis, employing gate arrays and standard cells, has been used extensively and successfully. But area-conscious chip makers, who in the microprocessor age are continuing to hand pack their layouts for maximum density, are suffering because of the unacceptably long time required for such layouts. But help is on the way! Recent research is leading to commercial products that can cut the design time significantly without area compromise. One such product makes use of symbolic graphical circuit descriptions, called stick diagrams, for input PLUS a program that compacts these features for maximum density consistent with the design rules. This capability allows the user to design in a “high level language”, without concern for lower level details, such as design rules.
 Another aid that is important is a good chip planning aid. It is well recognized that global optimal rearrangement will save much more area than any local maximal packing. So, the ability to rearrange large areas of circuits globally while keeping the electrical interconnections is extremely important in reducing die size. Such product is well within present day technology and may appear on the market place shortly.
 As long as silicon area remains important to cost, the approach to design will still favor design assistance rather than total automation. This is based on the belief that hand layout is denser than any automatic layout that exists today. So, tools that aid the designer are likely to be more useful and better accepted than total synthesis tools.