Multimedia applications demand specific support from database management systems due to the characteristics of multimedia data and their interactive usage. This includes integrated support for high-volume and time-dependent (continuous) data types like audio and video. One critical issue is to provide handling of continuous data streams including buffer management as needed for multimedia presentations. Buffer management strategies for continuous data have to consider specific requirements like providing for continuity of presentations, for immediate continuation of presentations after frequent user interactions by appropriate buffer resource consumption. Existing buffer management strategies do not sufficiently support the handling of continuous data streams in highly interactive multimedia presentations. In this paper we present the “least/most relevant for presentation” (LJMRP) buffer management strategy whichconsiderspresentationspecificinformationin order to provide an optimized behavior with respect to the requirements mentioned above. WMRP is a framework to formulate specific interaction models and is therefore adaptable to individual multimedia applications. We present a simulation study showing that an instantiated L/MRP outperforms existing approachesforgiventypesofinteractivemultimedia applications. It is shown that UMRP is especially suitable to support highly interactive multimedia presentations. + The new address of the author is Department of Computer Science, University of the Saarland, D-66041 Saarbriicken, Germany. kraiss@cs.uni-sb.de. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributedfor direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Very Large Data Base Endowment. Tocopyotherwise, ortorepublish, requiresafeeantiorspecial permission from the Endowment. Proceedings of the 21th VLDB Conference Zurich, Switzerland, 1995