Sequential recommendation aims at identifying the next item that is preferred by a user based on their behavioral history. Compared to conventional sequential models that leverage attention mechanisms and RNNs, recent efforts mainly follow two directions for improvement: multi-interest learning and graph convolutional aggregation. Specifically, multi-interest methods such as ComiRec and MIMN, focus on extracting different interests for a user by performing historical item clustering, while graph convolution methods including TGSRec and SURGE elect to refine user preferences based on multilevel correlations between historical items. Unfortunately, neither of them realizes that these two types of solutions can mutually complement each other, by aggregating multi-level user preference to achieve more precise multi-interest extraction for a better recommendation. To this end, in this paper, we propose a unified multi-grained neural model (named MGNM) via a combination of multi-interest learning and graph convolutional aggregation. Concretely, MGNM first learns the graph structure and information aggregation paths of the historical items for a user. It then performs graph convolution to derive item representations in an iterative fashion, in which the complex preferences at different levels can be well captured. Afterwards, a novel sequential capsule network is proposed to inject the sequential patterns into the multi-interest extraction process, leading to a more precise interest learning in a multi-grained manner. Experiments on three real-world datasets from different scenarios demonstrate the superiority of MGNM against several state-of-the-art baselines. The performance gain over the best baseline is up to 27.10% and 25.17% in terms of NDCG@5 and HIT@5 respectively, which is one of the largest gains in recent development of sequential recommendation. Further analysis also demonstrates that MGNM is robust and effective at user preference understanding at multi-grained levels.