Welcome to Atlanta and the 22nd IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, the major annual forum on the theory and practice of automating all aspects of the software-development process. Software engineering is concerned with the analysis, design, implementation, testing, and maintenance of large software systems. Automated software engineering focuses on how to automate or partially automate these tasks to achieve significant improvements in quality and productivity. Formerly known as Knowledge-Based Software Engineering (KBSE), this meeting marks the 10th Anniversary of the conference under its current name 
 
This year's program comprises three days of technical paper presentations, a poster session, a series of mini-tutorials presented in parallel with the technical sessions, two full-day and two half-day tutorials, tool demonstrations, a doctoral symposium, and keynote addresses by three prominent members of the community. In addition, five workshops were selected to run prior to the opening of the conference. The evaluation of technical papers was rigorous and highly selective. Each paper was reviewed by at least three reviewers drawn from our international program committee and a pool of expert reviewers. During a two-day meeting, the committee then selected 37 papers from a pool of 312 submissions. In addition, the committee selected 38 submissions for inclusion as short papers, which will be presented in two poster sessions at the conference. We thank all of the members of the program committee and expert review panel for their hard work in putting together such a strong program 
 
The meeting, especially the social activities, would not have been possible without generous support from three industrial sponsors – LogicBlox (platinum), Google (silver), and Aflac Insurance (bronze). LogicBlox is an Atlanta-based company that develops high-performance database infrastructure used to power decision-support and financial-planning applications for large retailers worldwide. The company exploits ASE technologies and invests heavily in ASE research. Google, based in Mountain View California, also invests heavily in ASE research and technology. Aflac is a provider of supplemental insurance and is based in Columbus, Georgia. The company invests in IT research and development and is sponsoring the Doctoral Symposium