Set reconciliation is a fundamental task in distributed systems, particularly in blockchain networks, where it enables the synchronization of transaction pools among peers and facilitates block dissemination. Existing traditional set reconciliation schemes are either statistical, providing success probability as a function of the communication overhead and the size of the symmetric difference, or require parametrization and estimation of the size of the symmetric difference, which can be prone to error. In this paper, we present CertainSync, a novel reconciliation framework that, to the best of our knowledge, is the first to guarantee successful set reconciliation without any parametrization or estimators in use. The framework is rateless and adapts to the unknown symmetric difference size. The set reconciliation is guaranteed to be completed successfully whenever the communication overhead reaches a lower bound derived from the symmetric difference size and the universe size. Our framework is based on recent constructions of Invertible Bloom Lookup Tables (IBLTs) ensuring successful element listing as long as the number of elements is bounded. We provide a theoretical analysis to prove the certainty in the set reconciliation for multiple constructions. The approach is also validated by simulations, showing the ability to synchronize sets with efficient communication costs while maintaining reconciliation guarantees compared to other baseline schemes for set reconciliation. To further improve communication overhead for large universes as blockchain networks, CertainSync is extended with a universe reduction technique to minimize communication overhead. We compare and validate the extended framework UniverseReduceSync against the basic CertainSync framework through simulations using real blockchain transaction hash data from the Ethereum blockchain network. The results illustrate a trade-off between improved communication costs and maintaining reconciliation guarantees without relying on parametrization or estimators, offering a comprehensive solution for set reconciliation in diverse scenarios.