Welcome to the 25th ACM Symposium on High-Performance Parallel and Distributed Computing (HPDC'16). HPDC'16 follows the tradition of previous versions of the conference by providing a high-quality, single-track forum for presenting new research results on all aspects of the design, implementation, evaluation, and application of parallel and distributed systems for high-end computing. The HPDC'16 program features eight sessions that cover wide range of topics including high performance networking, parallel algorithms, algorithm-based fault tolerance, big data processing, I/O optimizations, non-volatile memory, cloud, resource management, many core systems, GPUs, graph processing algorithms, and more. In these sessions, not only full papers but also short papers are presented to give a mix of novel research directions at various stages of development, which also is exhibited by a number of posters. This program is complemented by an interesting set of six workshops, FTXS, HPGP, SEM4HPC, DIDC, ROSS and ScienceCloud, on a range of timely and related systems and application topics. 
 
The conference program also features three keynote/invited talks given by Dr. Jeffrey Vetter of Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Professor Jack Dongarra of University of Tennessee, and Professor Ada Gavrilovska of Georgia Tech to memorialize the late Professor Karsten Schwan of Georgia Tech. 
 
Jack Dongarra is the recipient of the 5th HPDC Annual Achievement Award. The purpose of this award is to recognize individuals who have made long lasting, influential contributions to the foundations or practice of the field of high-performance parallel and distributed computing, to raise the awareness of these contributions, especially among the younger generation of researchers, and to improve the image and the public relations of the HPDC community. The Award Selection Committee followed the formalized process established in 2013 to select the winner with an open call for nominations. 
 
The HPDC'16 call for papers attracted 129 paper submissions. In the review process this year, we followed two established methods that were started in 2012: a two-round review process and an author rebuttal process. In the first round review, all papers received at least three reviews, and based on these reviews, 71 papers went on to the second round in which most of them received another two reviews. In total, 514 reviews were generated by the 54-member Program Committee along with a number of external reviewers. For many of the 71 second-round papers, the authors submitted rebuttals. Rebuttals were carefully taken into consideration during the Program Committee deliberations as part of the selection process. On March 10-11, the Program Committee met at University of Pittsburgh (Pittsburgh, PA) and made the final selection. Each paper in the second round of reviews was discussed at the meeting. At the end of the 1.5-day meeting, the Program Committee accepted 20 full papers, resulting in an acceptance rate of 15.5%. In addition, the committee accepted 9 submissions as short papers. We would like to thank all contributing authors, regardless of the results of their submissions. We are very grateful to the Program Committee members for their hard work and for providing their reviews, in what was a very tight review schedule and a very rigorous review process.