Our project aims at the creation of a digital library of newspaper issues dated since 1890. At the moment, all the available source material is property of Lambrakis Press SA, the largest publisher in Greece. The printed material exceeds !,200,000 pages, half of which are of A2 size. In order to facilitate the access to the digitized material, we have developed a retroconversion procedure [1,2] according to which articles are traced and catalogued. For the time being, the full text of the articles is only partially available. The reasons for this are that in some cases we have encountered low quality originals, rare old fonts (in our case old Greek fonts) as well as the absence of a suitable dictionary that could correct the OCR outcome and make the recognition reliable. In addition, an integrated set of search tools is provided to the users so that they can easily find the information they are looking for. Finally, when the user decides to see an article, the entire newspaper page image is displayed having the requested article marked appropriately. In this dame, we are focusing in presenting the search tools. An investigation in our corporate users has shown that a search mechanism should meet the following requirements: l ) To support users of different mentality in searching. Old habits like exact word matching and Boolean queries should be supported since some users do not want to change the way they do things. 2) To support users of different levels of sophistication. Some users are novice searchers while others have significant experience using Interact search tools. 3) To provide simple ways in order to help users to express their information need and to present the results to them. We believe that a broader spectrum of users would have similar requirements. In our system a user can search in articles metadata and content, where as content we consider the full text or the titling (headline, top-title, subtitle) in case full text is not available. User weighting of query parts is supported. The search result lists are combined to give a unified result list. This combination is either a fuzzy conjunction in the spirit of [3] or a ranked combination, in the latter case, we additionally take into consideration the number of matching fields between the article and the query. The FTR engine holds a central position in our system. In order to design it we have taken into account the following points: • The subjects of the articles vary. • The articles cover a time period of over 100 years.