The growth in data needs of modern applications has created significant challenges for modern systems leading to a “memory wall.” Spintronic Domain-Wall Memory (DWM), provides near-SRAM read/write performance, energy savings and non-volatility, potential for extremely high storage density, and does not have significant endurance limitations. However, DWM’s benefits cannot directly address data access latency and throughput limitations of memory bus bandwidth. Processing-inmemory (PIM) is a popular solution to reduce the demands of memory-to-processor communication by offloading computation directly to the memory. PIM has been proposed in multiple technologies including DRAM, Phase-change memory (PCM), resistive memory (ReRAM), and Spin-Transfer Torque Memory (STT-MRAM). DRAM PIM provides solutions for a restricted set of two operand bulk-bitwise operations. PIM in PCM and ReRAM raise concerns about their effective endurance and PIM in STT-MRAM has insufficient density for main-memory applications. We propose CORUSCANT, a DWM-based in-memory computing solution that leverages the properties of DWM nanowires and allows them to serve as polymorphic gates. While normally DWM is accessed by applying spin polarized currents orthogonal to the nanowire at access points to read individual bits, transverse access along the DWM nanowire allows the differentiation of the aggregate resistance of multiple bits in the nanowire, akin to a multi-level cell. CORUSCANT leverages this transverse reading to directly provide multi-operand bulk-bitwise logic. Leveraging this multi-operand concept enabled by transverse access, CORUSCANT provides techniques to conduct multi-operand addition and two operand multiplication much more efficiently than prior digital PIM solutions. CORUSCANT provides a 1.6 × speedup compared to the leading DRAM PIM technique for query applications that leverage bulk bitwise operations. Compared to the leading PIM technique for DWM, CORUSCANT improves performance by 6.9 ×, 2.3 × and energy by 5.5 ×, 3.4 × for 8-bit addition and multiplication, respectively. For arithmetic heavy benchmarks, CORUSCANT reduces access latency by 2.1 ×, while decreasing energy consumption by 25.2 × for a 10% area overhead versus non-PIM DWM.