A structured abstract (250-word limit) with the following headings: Background, Objective(s), Methods, Results, Conclusion(s). Text: Must include the following sections: (1) Background with clearly stated Objective(s); (2) Methods; (3) Results; (4) Discussion; (5) Conclusion and (6) Funding and Conflict of Interest. The Background should succinctly summarize the literature with regards to the objective(s). Methods must state the study design, and should include setting and dates of study, subject selection criteria, data collection methods, and statistical methods used. The Results should clearly state the final sample size(s), participation and exclusions, and primary analyses that are parallel to the Objectives. The Discussion section should address the importance of the findings reported in the results section and how they compare to other published reports of a similar nature. A limitations section is expected for Original Research and Methodologic Reviews. The Conclusion should briefly summarize conclusions based on the content of the paper. The Funding and Conflict of Interest section should comprise a brief summary of all funding sources and any conflict of interest that exists (for example funds or honoraria paid from any source that stands to gain financially from the outcomes described in the study.) This is included in the manuscript to ensure the information is visible to reviewers. When not applicable, the authors should state that no conflict of interest exists. References should follow the text and be included in the same main document as the text. Tables and Figures will be uploaded as separate files. Additional notes on Methods: Definitions of Breastfeeding: Distinguish between infant feeding groups and/or use definitions of breastfeeding in Labbok M, Krasovec K. "Toward consistency in breastfeeding definitions." Stud Fam Plann. 1990;21:226-230. Statistical Methods: Statistical analysis should include the following items, as appropriate. • Pre-study calculation of sample size where appropriate • Statements adequately describing or referencing all statistical procedures used • Confidence intervals given for the main results Original Research: Brief Reports 1500-word limit excluding Abstract, tables, figures, and references; limit to 1 table and 1 figure. Brief reports on new, interesting findings will meet the same criteria as Original Research but will be reported in shorter format reflecting a less complex study design or original findings not requiring an extended manuscript. A title page and structured abstract (250 words) are required. Manuscripts should be formatted using the same headings as original research articles (see above). Student Research Original Research and Original Research: Brief Reports by students currently enrolled in a degree seeking program. JHL seeks to foster an interest in the field, and in early career development, by dedicating space to student-led research. Student Research manuscripts will undergo the same blinded, external peer-review process as other manuscripts. It is expected that the student is first-author on the manuscript, and has had a significant contribution to at least two of the following areas: study design and concept, implementation, data collection, statistical analysis and interpretation, drafting of the manuscript. NOTE: On the title page, please include 1-2 sentences describing the student's current situation ie the course/program where the student is currently matriculated. Reviews 4000-word limit. JHL welcomes reviews on lactation-related topics. The review should reflect a clearly formulated question or objective to identify, select, and appraise relevant research, and to collect and summarize data or information from the studies that are included in the review. Statistical methods may or may not be used to analyze and summarize the results of the included studies. Manuscript format is similar to Original Research above. An unstructured abstract limited to 250 words, summarizing review content, is required. Contact the JHL editorial office with questions pertaining to appropriate review topics. Case Reports 1500-word limit, excluding tables, figures, and references. Include an unstructured abstract (250 words); a brief introduction, including a review of the literature relating to the problem; the case presentation, including history of the problem and other pertinent information, clinical approach, and outcome; and discussion/recommendations regarding future investigations and/or assistance of future clients. Client confidentiality must be protected in the presentation. Tables should be kept to a minimum. Letters to the Editor JHL readers are encouraged to exchange information or provide input related to a recently published journal article or contributions to a controversy or debate by submitting a letter to the editor. A letter should not exceed 500 words, no abstract is required. Letters commenting on recently published articles should reference the particular article. References should be kept to a minimum. Insights in Practice 1500-word limit, excluding tables, figures, and references. Innovative teaching aids and procedures, charting, and referral forms specific to a lactation workup are appropriate for this column. We also invite general discussions about running a lactation consultant practice, hospital-based management and service issues, and contemporary insights related to clinical experience. The manuscript should include an unstructured abstract (limit 250 words), an introduction stating the issue/problem, a presentation of the recommendations, and a summary of the information presented. Include subheadings as necessary. Insights in Policy 2000-word limit, excluding tables, figures, and references. This column is designed to feature new steps in policy making, for example, innovative policies on lactation-related, hospital clinical practice, or steps forward in national or international policy-making, such as development of national guidelines for implementation of the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative. We also invite general discussion and contemporary insights on policy-making and ways in which policies can be changed or implemented. The manuscript should include an unstructured abstract (limit 250 words), an introduction stating the issue/problem, a presentation of the recommendations, and a summary of the information presented. Include subheadings as necessary. Commentaries 1500-word limit, excluding tables, figures, and references. Perspectives related to timely issues in the field of human lactation are appropriate for this column. Commentaries do not have abstracts. It should be reflected in the title that the manuscript is a commentary. Inside Track This is the only section of JHL written for breastfeeding mothers rather than professionals. Request detailed guidelines from jhleditorialoffice@gmail.com. No abstract; 1200 word-limit—must be written as a 2-page parent handout in low-literacy style (around 10 yrs old) but still based on evidence and research. Any topic that is practically applicable to a breastfeeding family is welcome. Examples include but are not limited to: milk supply, expressing and pumping for a premie, toddler nursing, returning to work, etc. Include information about the role of the IBCLC in relation to the topic. At least 1 author must be IBCLC, and the lead author must be an ILCA member. Inside Track seeks to promote the IBCLC and their role. Statements or claims that are not common knowledge, however, need to be referenced. Quick Check: Manuscript Requirements Article Type Limitations Abstract Original Research 3500 words 250, structured Original Research, Brief Report 1500 words 250, structured Reviews 4000 words 250, unstructured Case Reports 1500 words 250, unstructured Letters to the Editor 500 words None Insights in Practice 1500 words 250, unstructured Insights in Policy 2000 words 250, unstructured Commentaries 1500 words None Inside Track 1200 words None REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUSCRIPTS SUBMITTED Preparation of Manuscript Acceptable English usage and syntax are expected. For guidance on manuscript writing style, refer to the American Medical Association Manual of Style, 10th ed. Do not use slang, medical jargon, or obscure abbreviations or phrasing. Metric measurement is preferred; equivalent English measurement may be included in parentheses. Always provide the complete form of an acronym/abbreviation the first time it is presented in the text. Write breast milk as two words, breastfeeding as one. Use generic names for drugs or devices; put trade names in parentheses. Acknowledgments Authors may acknowledge persons who have contributed to the research or manuscript development. Participation of research subjects may be acknowledged, but not specifically named. Limit acknowledgments to 50 words. Acknowledgements should be included by itself on a separate page after the Title Page and before the Abstract. Funding Source At the end of the main text, authors must include disclosure of funding received for the work from organizations such as National Institutes of Health (NIH), private foundations, industry, etc. Ethical Approval / Protection of Human Subjects and Animals in Research When reporting research activities involving human or animal subjects, please include a statement indicating that all procedures followed were in accord with the ethical standards of the responsible institutional council, committee, or review board. Please specify which institution granted approval. If the research was exempt from ethical approval, please include a statement indicating that. Research articles without a clear statement of such approval will be returned without review. For research involving animals, authors should indicate whether the procedures followed were in accordance with the standards set forth in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (published by the National Academy of Scie