Cryptographic functions are instrumental in securing our electronic communications and systems; yet time and time again they are mis-used, mis-implemented, or created in an ad-hoc manner. Additionally, while cryptography plays a fundamental role in securing systems, it is unfortunately also used for malicious purposes, such as hiding payloads in malware. Many such instances occur in closed-source code or binary applications, which inherently present a challenge for independent audit and analysis. Therefore, detecting the presence of cryptographic functions in a binary application can be both an indicator of malicious behavior as well as a point of interest for cryptographic analyses and vulnerability discovery.While general purpose binary analysis and function identification techniques are themselves broad and thriving areas that could help solve these problems, a variety of work across industry and academia has focused on a subset of this space: developing techniques and tools that are specifically tailored to identifying different cryptographic primitives in binary applications. Despite the relative popularity of this work and recent advances in the space, it already lacks consistent means of evaluation or comparisons across tools. As such, we set out to conduct comprehensive reproduction and replication studies on all existing work in the space, from multiple perspectives. We noticed there is a significant gap in comparing tools, as there is no standardized testing framework allowing one to easily compare and contrast their strengths and weaknesses on a level playing field. As such, to complement the traditional R+R studies, we developed a comprehensive testing and evaluation framework which includes a number of modern cryptographic algorithms and real world examples, that allows for the comparison of both existing and future work in a uniform manner. We then carried out reproduction and replication studies, using both their benchmarks and ours. Finally, based on our insights from the studies, we highlight major gaps in existing work, especially as they relate to modern cryptographic primitives and real-world use cases, and discuss a variety of important avenues for future work.