The success of deep learning (DL) techniques has led to their adoption in many fields, including attack investigation, which aims to recover the whole attack story from logged system provenance by analyzing the causality of system objects and subjects. Existing DL-based techniques, e.g., state-of-the-art one ATLAS, follow the design of traditional forensics analysis pipelines. They train a DL model with labeled causal graphs during offline training to learn benign and malicious patterns. During attack investigation, they first convert the log data to causal graphs and leverage the trained DL model to determine if an entity is part of the whole attack chain or not. This design does not fully release the power of DL. Existing works like BERT have demonstrated the superiority of leveraging unsupervised pre-trained models, achieving state-of-the-art results without costly and error-prone data labeling. Prior DL-based attacks investigation has overlooked this opportunity. Moreover, generating and operating the graphs are time-consuming and not necessary. Based on our study, these operations take around 96% of the total analysis time, resulting in low efficiency. In addition, abstracting individual log entries to graph nodes and edges makes the analysis more coarse-grained, leading to inaccurate and unstable results. We argue that log texts provide the same information as causal graphs but are fine-grained and easier to analyze. This paper presents A IR T AG , a novel attack investigation system. It is powered by unsupervised learning with log texts. Instead of training on labeled graphs, A IR T AG leverages un-supervised learning to train a DL model on the log texts. Thus, we do not require the heavyweight and error-prone process of manually labeling logs. During the investigation, the DL model directly takes log files as inputs and predicts entities related to the attack. We evaluated A IR T AG on 19 scenarios, including single-host and multi-host attacks. Our results show the superior efficiency and effectiveness of A IR T AG compared to existing solutions. By removing graph generation and operations, A IR T AG is 2.5x faster than the state-of-the-art method, ATLAS, with 9.0% fewer false positives and 16.5% more true positives on average.