Welcome to ACM VANET 2012, the Ninth ACM International Workshop on Vehicular Inter-Networking, Systems, and Applications! The VANET Workshop begins a new chapter this year in association with the ACM MobiSys Conference. 
 
The importance of vehicular communication technologies for improving the safety and efficiency of our roadways is by now well established. Building on prior success in demonstrating feasibility and interoperability, the focus of the research community today is on advanced topics essential to a successful widespread deployment. VANET 2012 continues its tradition as the premier workshop on vehicular communications and protocols, and breaks new ground with a broadened emphasis that includes system and application challenges. Our authors combine fresh looks at fundamental issues like scalability, dissemination, and security, with investigations of emerging topics related to design, simulation, and testing of vehicular communication systems. 
 
The Technical Program Committee has prepared an exciting program of technical presentations focusing on many interesting aspects of the vehicular communication area. We have accepted 9 full and 2 short papers for oral presentation, from a total of 34 submissions. Additionally, 13 of the submissions have been selected as posters. The papers cover the full range of wireless communications in a vehicular environment, from protocol and algorithm design to application and system development. The program also includes a thought provoking keynote address reflecting the mobile systems perspective, and a stimulating panel discussion on second generation VANETs. 
 
We would like to express our gratitude to all authors who submitted their work to ACM VANET 2012. All submitted papers have been thoroughly and independently reviewed in accordance with standard double blind procedures. Each submitted paper was assigned to at least 3 reviewers. The review process is a real community effort, and we were very fortunate to have a dedicated technical program committee providing the reviews. In total we had 24 TPC members from both academia and industry, recognized experts in the field, and the majority of review tasks were conducted by TPC members and executive committee members. Thanks go to all reviewers for providing timely and high quality reviews to complete this enormous task. We would also like to thank generous financial support from the Toyota InfoTechnology Center, USA. 
 
We hope that you will find the workshop program and presentations exciting and thought-provoking, and we look forward to your company in a very exciting VANET 2012 in Low Wood Bay, Lake District, UK.