On behalf of the organizing committee, we welcome you to the 19th ACM International Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing (HPDC-19) and to Chicago, Illinois, a city rich in culture, history, technology, and third largest city in the United States. The HPDC Symposium is the premier venue for presenting the latest research on the design, implementation, evaluation, and use of parallel and distributed systems for high performance and high end computing. We are looking forward to lively discussions about HPDC emerging technologies, applications and their challenges. In the last two decades, we have experienced rapid advances in networks and computing, Internet technologies and services, parallel and distributed programming tools that have lead to the developed and deployment of many HPDC systems and services include Grid Computing, Cloud Computing, Pervasive Computing, just to name a few. These advances and technologies bring with them many challenges and exciting opportunities that can be addressed by the HPDC research community. 
 
This year's technical program presents high-quality papers in HPDC Workflows, Cloud Computing and Tools, Data Centers and Virtualization, Scheduling, Storage and I/O, Communications, and Applications. We would like to thank Peter Dinda (Program Chair), Northwestern University, for his outstanding and tireless efforts in assembling an excellent program committee, managing the reviews and selection of the papers, and even addressing many other issues related to sponsorship, proceedings, finance, and more to make sure we have an excellent HPDC program for this year. We owe a great debt to Peter, whose dedications and commitments have produced another strong technical program that we all will enjoy and appreciate when we meet in Chicago. 
 
Continuing the HPDC tradition, this year's symposium features eight workshops: Emerging Computation Methods for the Life Sciences, LSAP: Large-Scale System and Application Performance, MDQCS: Managing Data Quality for Collaborative Science, ScienceCloud: Workshop on Scientific Cloud Computing, CLADE: Challenges of Large Applications in Distributed Environments, DIDC: Data Intensive Distributed Computing, MAPREDUCE: MapReduce and its applications, and VTDC: Virtualization Technologies for Distributed Computing. We would like to acknowledge the excellent job done by Douglas Thain (Workshop Chair), University of Notre Dame, in putting together a strong workshop program.