On behalf of the organizing committee, I wholeheartedly welcome you to the 19th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM 2010). I hope this conference proves to be interesting and beneficial. 
 
CIKM is a well-known top tier and premier ACM conference in the areas of information retrieval, knowledge management and database. Since its inception, the CIKM conference has provided a unique international forum for the presentation, discussion, and dissemination of research findings in data management, information retrieval, and knowledge management. The purpose of the conference is to identify challenging problems facing the development of future knowledge and information systems, and to shape future research directions through the publication of high quality, applied and theoretical research findings. The conference has been a leading forum in which experts from academia, industry, and the government gather to exchange ideas, research achievements, and technical developments in multidisciplinary research areas. 
 
CIKM has rapidly grown to become one of the world's most recognized conferences in the field. This year CIKM has received a record high number of submissions in the history of CIKM, as can be seen from the following statistics: 
1382 abstracts submitted 
945 full papers plus 38 demo papers submitted 
126 papers accepted for presentation as full papers (13.3% acceptance rate) and an additional 165 were accepted for short papers (17.5%). 
 
 
 
In addition to regular research tracks, CIKM 2010 features 4 keynote speakers, 4 pre-conference tutorials, 9 workshops, 12 industrial full papers and 20 demo papers. I am proud of our program and acknowledge the tireless efforts of people who materialized this program. 
 
First of all, I am honored to have 4 distinguished keynote speakers: Jamie Callan, Susan Dumais, Gregory Grefenstette, and Divesh Srivastava. I deeply appreciate their time and commitment to deliver their speeches and share their cutting-edge research experiences and insightful comments in their research topics.