vi Artificial intelligence continues to be one of the most vibrant, challenging, and forward-looking areas of computer science. These proceedings collect the papers accepted for presentation at the Twenty-first International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-09) held in Pasadena, California, USA from July 11–17, 2009. This collection represents some of the most exciting research taking place in AI today, continuing the tradition of excellence established by IJCAI at its inception 40 years ago in 1969. The theme of this year’s conference is "the interdisciplinary reach of artificial intelligence." Apart from its forward-looking nature, AI has always been outward-looking, and this theme allows us to explore the broad impact of AI on science, engineering, medicine, social sciences, arts and humanities through invited talks, workshops, tutorials, and other events dedicated to this theme. Many of the papers in this volume are explicitly interdisciplinary, and still more contribute to or draw from other intellectual disciplines indirectly. The papers presented herein were selected for presentation in IJCAI’s technical program through a highly competitive peer review process. Each submitted paper was reviewed by three members of the program committee, and supervised by a senior program committee member and area chair. Authors were given the opportunity to provide feedback on preliminary reviews (for example, to correct any misunderstandings), and senior program committee members directed the discussion of the papers by the reviewers (in some cases, recruiting auxiliary reviewers with special expertise, or engaging the area chair in the discussion as well). On the basis of all reviews, author feedback and discussion, senior program committee members made accept or reject recommendations to the area chairs. The area chairs then met face-to-face to make final decisions. In the end, we received 1,291 submissions, and accepted 331 papers (a 25.6 percent acceptance rate). All papers will be presented orally during IJCAI’s technical program. While the reviewing process is intensive, it ensures that IJCAI adheres to the highest standards of quality. The overall quality of submissions was very high, and we hope you agree that the accepted papers appearing in these proceedings make significant contributions to the state-of-the-art, and reflect some of the most outstanding work in the field. Of note are two papers that were selected as IJCAI-09 Distinguished Papers: Learning Conditional Preference Networks with Queries Frédéric Koriche and Bruno Zanuttini