The 1986 Symposium on Security and Privacy is the seventh in a series of annual symposia sponsored by the Technical Committee on Security and Privacy and, more recently, co-sponsored by the International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR). Throughout the last seven years, the Symposia have focused on research results both in the theoretical and practical aspects of computer security. This is also true of this year's program, which covers a wide range of topics including: verification and testing methods, operating system mechanisms , security policies and models, database security, network security, and architectures for secure systems. Although the theme of the Symposium has not changed in the last seven years, the papers submitted reflect important advances in our understanding of computer security and the ever-growing concern with the timely application of research results to real systems. The growing interest in this Symposium is reflected by the large number of submissions. We have received 91 submissions of papers and 2 panel proposals. Although 4 submissions arrived between January 14 and February 1 and could not be processed, the remaining number of submissions represents more than a 300% increase over that of the first Symposium. Each submission was reviewed by three members of the Program Committee, and the received reviews were sent to each author. Because the number of possible acceptances could not exceed 25, many quality papers could not be included in the program. Nevertheless, to ensure that the computer security community has a chance to read these papers, we have recommended 15 of them for inclusion in Cipher-the review publication of the IEEE Technical Committee on Security and Privacy. We would like to thank all the authors who submitted papers to the Symposium and to the members of the Program Committee who, despite an unusually demanding schedule, have responded promptly to all our requests. We would also like to thank Prof. C. V. Ramamoorthy, the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, not only for allowing us to publish the best papers of the Symposium in the Transactions but also for dedicating an entire special issue to computer security during 1986. We are indebted to several other people have worked with dedication for this Symposium behind-the-scene. Among these, Mr.