
 Accurately predicting the response of materials under different loading conditions is crucial for designing and developing new materials with desired properties. However, this process can be computationally expensive and challenging, especially for heterogeneous materials with complex microstructures. Recently, machine learning has been widely used to address the challenge for developing predictive models for various material systems with reduced reliance on extensive experimental testings and repetitive expensive physics simulations. The microstructure of a material plays a critical role in determining its properties, making it a key factor that needs to be accounted for in predictive modeling. Heterogeneous materials, specifically, often have complex microstructures with numerous features like pores, inclusions, and grain boundaries, which need to be accurately captured but is hard to be quantified for developing machine learning based predictive models. Therefore, accurate encoding of microstructural features is essential for making reliable predictions. Nevertheless, how to effectively and efficiently capture the complex microstructural features in developing machine learning based predictive models largely remains an open question for researchers in the field of materials science. In this paper, we present a comparison study of different encoding methods for microstructures in machine learning models. Specifically, we investigate pre-defined encoding methods and automatic encoding methods for a synthetic heterogeneous material system. the performance of each machine learning model is evaluated by predicting material responses such as strain energy. Our results show that convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have the ability to auto-encode the microstructure information of material and make promising prediction, especially when good pre-defined descriptors are not available. Overall, this study provides valuable insights into the performance of different encoding methods for microstructures in machine learning models, and can inform the development of more accurate and efficient models for materials science applications.