An understanding of the problems confronting African-American students in computer science will undoubtedly help to improve the retention rate of the minority group. For three consecutive years we conducted a follow-up survey of those students who had just completed tka requirements for a bachelor degree program in computer science at The intent of the survey was to identify the extent to which the students were satisfied with our instructional and administrative services and consequently to provide diagnostic information on how we can better serve the future generation of minority students, The survey results provide information on the best educational experiences of the students and major barriers to their education. The usefulness and implications of the survey results are discussed. RATIOMALE The relative low representation of African-American students in computer science requires an immediate action. Although many predominantly white institutions are able to attract Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies ate not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, theACM copyright notice andtha title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying ia by permissionof the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. talented minority students into their computer science programs, the attrition rate of the African-American group is usually high. A useful supportive program aimed at removing technical and attitudinal barriers confronting minority students at the majority universities must be developed. A realistic remedial program for the minority group should be designed based on the findings from a survey of those minority students who have successfully completed a degree program in computer science. RESEARCH DESIG19 Since 198? the annual undergraduate enrollment in the computer science program at North Carolina A & T State University (NCATSU) has been fluctuating around four hundred. Approximately eighty-five percent of this enrollment had always been African-American students. However, we had been graduating forty to sixty African-American students each year. Populaticm FcIr the purpose of our research study we defined the target population as all African-American undergraduate students who completed the bachelor of science degree program in computer-science at NCATSU. However, since Oul " student population covers the broad spectrum of Af;ican-American students ea~t and southeast coasts in the west, of America, 219 the ~-esults of our study may be found useful in schools who have students with characteristics similar to …