To overcome the difficulty of demonstrating computer networking to undergraduate students, a network specification language and execution environment have been designed and implemented under which the 1S0/0S1 model and LANs may be investigated. The specification language permits definition of point-to-point, Ethernet and token ring domains, the nodes within each domain, links between these nodes and gateways between different domains. Attributes may be specified to constrain the behaviour of individual nodes, such as the rate at which packets are generated by the node’s host layer. For each link, the cost of delivering data frames along that link may be specified, together with the likelihood and extent of packet loss, corruption and delay. Each likelihood may be specified using standard statistical distributions. By altering the specification of network nodes and links, a number of different aspects of computer networking may be highlighted. For example, nodes may be made to crash and links to become severed, enabling different data-link and dynamic routing algorithms to be investigated. The execution environment runs under the UNIX operating system and uses either the X-windows or SunView windowing environments, Each network node executes in its own window on the screen and attributes defined using the specification language may be modified while the network is running. In particular, different practical projects for an undergraduate computer networking course may be set each year using the same software. This paper describes the specification language, the execution environment and experiences gained in using the software this year. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. @ 1991 ACM 0-89791 -377-9/91 /0002-0025 . ..~1 .S0 INTRODUCTION As a reflection of both computer industry requirements and contemporary computer science research there is an increasing emphasis on computer networks and data communications in the computer science curriculum. The direction taken within these courses appears to follow one of three avenues : ● emphasis on the physical properties of data communications, mechanisms for encoding signals on the physical medium, the origins and significance of electrical interference, and the physical construction of networks. ● emphasis on the International Standards Organization’s Open Systems Interconnection (1S0/0S1) networking reference model. ● emphasis on shared medium, Local Area Network (LAN) technologies, such as the Ethernet specification and token ring networks, Unfortunately, due to restrictions imposed on courses, such as course length, number of students, required course emphasis (for, say, computer science or electronic engineering students), availability of hardware and software facilities, and perceived course highlights, not all aspects of computer networking can be addressed equally. The University of Western Australia has offered a computer networks course to third year undergraduate students for eight years now with a traditional emphasis upon the 1S0/0S1 reference model. Tanenbaum’s ‘ ‘Computer Networks” [TAN88] (first and now second edition) has been the recommended textbook. In earlier years the lower layers of the 1S0/0S1 model, the datalink, network and transportation layers, were examined in detail, the motivation being to explicate mediumand long-haul networks. More recently, greater emphasis has been given to LANs. The motivation for this shift has been tc) address current networking trends, the very visible Ethernet based networks, transcontinental internetworking and distributed file systems. The course still initially examines the 1S0/0S1 model, as, to paraphrase