Time series anomaly detection (TSAD) has been a long-standing pillar problem in Web-scale systems and online infrastructures, such as service reliability monitoring, system fault diagnosis, and performance optimization. Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated unprecedented capabilities in time series analysis, the potential of multimodal LLMs (MLLMs), particularly vision-language models, in TSAD remains largely under-explored. One natural way for humans to detect time series anomalies is through visualization and textual description. It motivates our research question: Can multimodal LLMs perform time series anomaly detection? Existing studies often oversimplify the problem by treating point-wise anomalies as special cases of range-wise ones or by aggregating point anomalies to approximate range-wise scenarios. They limit our understanding for realistic scenarios such as multi-granular anomalies and irregular time series. To address the gap, we build a VisualTimeAnomaly benchmark to comprehensively investigate zero-shot capabilities of MLLMs for TSAD, progressively from point-, range-, to variate-wise anomalies, and extends to irregular sampling conditions. Our study reveals several key insights. 1) MLLMs and traditional TSAD methods are complementary: MLLMs excel at coarse-grained anomalies while traditional methods are effective at fine-grained anomalies. 2) MLLMs are resilient to irregular time series. 3) Input time series modality changing from text to image makes information focus shift from quantitative variations to qualitative patterns while significantly reducing hallucinations. Built on the findings, we propose a MLLMs-based multi-agent framework TSAD-Agents to achieve automatic TSAD. Our framework comprises scanning, planning, detection, and checking agents that synergistically collaborate to reason, plan, and self-reflect to enable automatic TSAD. These agents adaptively invoke tools such as traditional methods and MLLMs and dynamically switch between text and image modalities to optimize detection performance.