and ABSTRACT This panel will discuss (a) the cognitive processes used in computer programming (b) how to use these processes in teaching computer science. Laurie Werth will introduce the panel members and give a brief background of work in this area. A short review of studies predicting success in beginning computer science classes, as well as copies of two computer science placement examinations, will be available as handouts. Barry Kurtz will briefly describe Piaget's intellectual development levels and a computer science test which he has designed to measure the correspondence between Piaget's levels and success in a beginning programming class. Dave Scanlan will discuss the differences between right an left brain cognitive abilities and the need for tapping right brain abilities in teaching computer science. Saj-nicole Joni will present a brief overview of the cognitive methodology used in cognitive phychology and artificial intelligence research. Using the programming knowledge which has been identified, she will present some ideas on helping novice programmers to correct non-buggy programs. Jeff Bonar will discuss cognitive elements in programming which he has measured and then explain a plan-based intelligent tutoring environment which he developed for beginning programmers. In a 1988 article, I reported on using a student's level of intellectual development, according to Piaget's notion of concrete and formal operational stages, to predict performance in an introductory programming course. I will give a brief explanation of intellectual development, a review of the test items, and a synopsis of results. While at the Educational Technology Center, U.C. Irvine, I attempted to computerize both the presentation and the analysis of responses for some standard Piaget tasks. The failure of simple pattern matching as an adequate analysis mechanism, led me to my current interests in augmenting computer based education with natural language interfaces to knowledge based systems. 373 ! •