So far manufacturing tolerance variability over samples has been widely considered in many engineering design problems. Traditionally the tolerance variability is modeled as a spatially independent random parameter although the variability is a function of spatial variables (x, y, and z) in many engineering applications. Little attention has been paid to spatial variability (or random field) in manufacturing and operational conditions, which may dominantly affect system performances in smaller scale applications. This paper presents an effective approach to characterize a random field for probability analysis and design. The Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (POD) method is employed to extract the important signatures of the random field over product samples. A normalized posteriori error is defined to automatically decide the minimal number of the important signatures while preserving a prescribed accuracy in approximating the random field. The random projected values of the spatial variability over the samples onto each important signature are modeled as a random parameter. The signatures and corresponding random parameters are thus used for modeling the random field. A Chi-Squae goodness-of-fit test is used for determining statistical models of random parameters. This proposed approach can facilitate to characterize the random field for probability analysis and design. By modeling the random field with the most significant random signatures, the Eigenvector Dimension Reduction (EDR) method can be employed for probability analysis because of its relatively high efficiency and accuracy. Two examples (one beam and Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) bistable mechanism) are used to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach while considering only a geometric random field. Compared to Monte Carlo Simulation (MCS), the proposed random field approach is appeared to be very accurate and efficient. Moreover, the results show that the random field variation cannot be neglected for probability analysis and design practices.Copyright © 2008 by ASME