In the past decade, deep learning has significantly reshaped the landscape of information retrieval (IR). The community has recently begun to notice the potential dangers of overusing less-understood mechanisms and over-simplified assumptions to learn patterns and make decisions. In particular, there is growing concerns on the interpretation, reliability, social impact, and long-term utility of real-world IR systems. Therefore, it has become a pressing issue to bring the IR community comprehensive and systematic tools to understand empirical domain solutions and motivate principled design ideas. We focus on the three pillar stones of modern IR systems: pattern recognition with deep learning, causal inference analysis, and online decision making (with bandits and reinforcement learning). Our objectives are as follows. For pattern recognition, we introduce theoretical tools that address the expressivity, optimization, generalization, and model diagnostic for widespread domain practices, including models from unsupervised, (semi-)supervised, meta-learning, and online learning. For causal inference analysis, we emphasize both learning from observational studies and optimizing online experiment design, leveraging the recent theoretical advancements from various domains. Finally, for online decision making (with bandits and reinforcement learning), we aim to resolve both the conceptual and practical learning, evaluation and deployment challenges by introducing powerful tools from robust optimization and optimal control. Our tutorial is inclusive: we not only cover a broad range of heating topics, more importantly, we substantiate our discussion with the production examples at Walmart and Instacart such that audiences with different backgrounds can learn to leverage the tools as instructed. Our tutorial can serve as a guideline for practitioners seeking justifications and principled design ideas, a playbook for researchers landing their innovations on IR productions, and an introductory course for those interested in learning the advanced topics and tools of IR.