Artificial Intelligence (AI) is increasingly playing an integral role in determining our day-to-day experiences. Increasingly, the applications of AI are no longer limited to search and recommendation systems, such as web search and movie and product recommendations, but AI is also being used in decisions and processes that are critical for individuals, businesses, and society. With AI based solutions in high-stakes domains such as hiring, lending, criminal justice, healthcare, and education, the resulting personal and professional implications of AI are far-reaching. Consequently, it becomes critical to ensure that these models are making accurate predictions, are robust to shifts in the data, are not relying on spurious features, and are not unduly discriminating against minority groups. To this end, several approaches spanning various areas such as explainability, fairness, and robustness have been proposed in recent literature, and many papers and tutorials on these topics have been presented in recent computer science conferences. However, there is relatively less attention on the need for monitoring machine learning (ML) models once they are deployed and the associated research challenges. In this tutorial, we first motivate the need for ML model monitoring[14], as part of a broader AI model governance[9] and responsible AI framework, from societal, legal, customer/end-user, and model developer perspectives, and provide a roadmap for thinking about model monitoring in practice. We then present findings and insights on model monitoring desiderata based on interviews with various ML practitioners spanning domains such as financial services, healthcare, hiring, online retail, computational advertising, and conversational assistants[15]. We then describe the technical considerations and challenges associated with realizing the above desiderata in practice. We provide an overview of techniques/tools for model monitoring (e.g., see [1, 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10-13, 18-21]. Then, we focus on the real-world application of model monitoring methods and tools [3, 4, 7, 11, 13, 16, 17], present practical challenges/guidelines for using such techniques effectively, and lessons learned from deploying model monitoring tools for several web-scale AI/ML applications. We present case studies across different companies, spanning application domains such as financial services, healthcare, hiring, conversational assistants, online retail, computational advertising, search and recommendation systems, and fraud detection. We hope that our tutorial will inform both researchers and practitioners, stimulate further research on model monitoring, and pave the way for building more reliable ML models and monitoring tools in the future.