The exptosior~ of e-commerce and new technologies has heightened competition within every industry. Executives are realizing the urgency of eliminating inefficiencies and aligning their operations more closely with trading partners. To this end, global corporations have made tremendous investments in implementing enterprise systems to streamline intemat business processes and develop systems to exchange data electronically with trading partners. While these systems provide significant value, companies are recognizing that they can no longer compete on the basis of their enterprise capabilities alone. They must compete on the combined competencies of their extended trading network. To leverage the collective strensahs of that community, access to information must be readily available throughout the trading network. Within the last two years, many companies and industries (such as the high-tech industry with its RosettaNet initiative) have made considerable progress in electronically linking trading parmers. Simply put, the primary objective of these initiatives is to streamline the interactions among trading partners by eliminating redundancies and improving the flow o:f critical information. The first step in accomplishing that objective is the establishment of standards by which partners :in the trading network will exchange infb~Tnation. These standards can take many different forms and have widely varying scope. However, there are certain core components required of any standard purporting to establish an industry model .for e-business, including, but not limited to: • Standard processes that define the interactions between trading partners • An implementation framework that describes a protocol for networked applications • A vocabulary defining information flowing between partners • Standard data dictionaries defining ranges of shared data values for enumerated elements. • An organization capable of maintaining the standard and providing certification services for vendors wishing to implement the standard While the goal of standards to ensure interoperability between heterogeneous entities is generally accepted, the current proliferation of incompatible standards is extremely detrimental to that goal. In order for the potential of e-business to be realized, there must be significant convergence in the standards world. That convergence will require two fundamental changes in the technology industry: software vendors must set aside their arrogance and work together to stabilize the technology base and industry organizations must abandon their overly academic approach to standards creation in favor of a much more pragmatic methodology. i I 1 ! 4 1 I I t ! 17 Permission to make digital or hard copies o fall or part of this workJbr personal …