In this paper we describe the use of situation models for observing and understanding activity. Observing activity in natural environments can be an extremely complex perceptual problem. Situation models provide a means to both focus attention in such systems and to provide default reasoning to accommodate missing and erroneous observations. We briefly review the use of situations models in Cognitive Science and then describe how such models can be used to provide services based on observation of human activity. We present a layered component-oriented software architecture in which components for perception and action maintain a situation model for use in providing human services. We describe how this model can be used to observe activity. I. INTRODUCTION Human activity is extremely rich. Real world scenes can contain an overwhelming number of possible agents and objects to detect and observe. As are result, systems and services based on observation of activity must, either implicitly or explicitly, be able to choose where to look next and what to look for. Designers of system for observing activity are increasingly confronted with the problem of control of attention. Attention is not the only problem confronting designers of systems for observing activity. Activity in the real world often occurs in less than ideal viewing conditions. Poor lighting, background clutter, object texture, and occlusions can degrade the reliability of even the most well designed systems. Thus systems and services must be able to detect and discard uncertain and unreliable observations, and if appropriate, substitute default information. In addition, many services require real time information from perception. In such systems it may be preferable to provide an immediate response with default information and to use background processes to verify that the response was correct. Current systems for observing activities tend to be constructed in an ad-hoc manner with control structures that are hard-wired into the system design. Such systems are generally restricted to detecting a very small set of activities