CONFER emerged from a concern with small group governance inboth its communications and decision making dimensions. Thiscontext will be described as well as the principles operationalizedin the CONFER system: individual equality, freedom, privacy andflexibility, and the facilitation of individual participation.CONFER is based on the proposition that effective communication isan active process for all concerned. This activity is stronglyencouraged in CONFER through a number of mechanisms designed tofacilitate interaction between the user and the CONFER system, aswell as interaction among all the users of the system. As well,growth of the system over time is promoted by interaction of thesystem designer with the user community.
The development of Merit's use of CONFER was aided greatly byour continuing close relationship with Dr. Parnes and by theparticipation of many members of the Merit staff in the CONFERencefor CONFER development that he eventually began. As we identifiednew aspects of CONFER use, we usually also were able to think ofchanges to CONFER that would facilitate them. For example, as webegan to realize how important was the general conversation amongour users--a critical need for the isolated user in particular--weled the lobbying effort for changes to make the voting structuremore interactive. In response, CONFER over the years has radicallyaltered the default form of participant comments from its originalformal and anonymous style to a conversational model. Similarly, asCAUCUS grew to enormous size we asked for (and got) aids inmanaging, and then in re-starting, large Conferences. In aremarkably short time, CAUCUS became a general meeting place formany who were not Merit users at all, simply because it offered aplace for users to meet one another and share problems andsolutions. Eventually CAUCUS gave birth to a general-purposeCONFERence for users of one of the host systems--an idea that hassince been implemented elsewhere as well.
The growing use of CAUCUS as a communications medium for Meritstaff eventually resulted in the birth of a CONFERence for thatspecific purpose. Before the use of CONFER there had beenrelatively little communication between the staff members at thecentral site and those located at the host computing centers exceptfor occasional face-to-face meetings that were largely reportorialin content. Once CAUCUS showed the staff that network issues couldbe discussed in real time and that input from the host staffs couldhave weight, the pattern of decision-making began to change. Withthe inception of the MNET:STAFF CONFERence, and the resultingprivacy for internal discussions, the role of the staffmembers--both centrally-located and at the hosts--continues to growas we expound, lobby, and negotiate on network issues while (oreven before) they are happening.
It is no exaggeration to say that we members of the Merit staffcould not do the job we do without CONFER. Merit's primary goal isto facilitate the use of remote computer resources for aheterogeneous and dispersed community of users. Without CONFER wewould be working harder to accomplish much less of thisobjective.