It is my pleasure to welcome you to the Tenth ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security. This year the CCS Conference offers an outstanding technical program. I hope that you will find it stimulating and a source of inspiration for your future research.I would like to thank several individuals who were responsible for the organization of this conference. First, thanks go to Vijay Atluri and the members of the program committee for selecting the papers included in the research track. The number of submissions this year far exceeded those in previous years. Program committee responsibilities entailed a lot more work this year, but everyone rose to meet the challenge. The standards for acceptance continued to remain high for ensuring a quality program.Second, I'd like to point out that this year's Conference program has been expanded to include a parallel industry and tutorials track. I want to thank Trent Jaeger for accepting the challenge to serve as the program chair of the industry track and Ravi Sandhu for performing a fantastic job as the tutorials chair. Although some attendees will be inconvenienced by the parallel tracks, I strongly believe that most will benefit from the additional choices this track offers. Also of note is that the workshops that have become an integral part of CCS Conferences in the past have continued, with eight workshops provided this year. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to everyone who helped organize these workshops, especially the workshop program chairs: Michael Backes, David Basin, and Michael Waidner (Workshop on Formal Methods in Security Engineering: From Specifications to Code); Wouter Joosen and Ravi Sandhu (Workshop on Business Driven Security Engineering); Michiharu Kudo (Workshop on XML Security); Peng Liu and Partha Pal (Workshop on Survival and Self-Regenerative Systems; Pierangela Samarati and Paul Syverson (Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society); Stefan Savage (Workshop on Rapid Malacode); Vipin Swarup and Sanjeev Setia (Workshop on Security of Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks); and Moti Yung (Workshop on Digital Rights Management).