In the classical discrete Colonel Blotto game—introduced
by Borel in 1921—two colonels simultaneously distribute
their troops across multiple battlefields. The winner of each
battlefield is determined by a winner-take-all rule, independently
of other battlefields. In the original formulation, each
colonel’s goal is to win as many battlefields as possible. The
Blotto game and its extensions have been used in a wide
range of applications from political campaign—exemplified
by the U.S presidential election—to marketing campaign,
from (innovative) technology competition to sports competition.
Despite persistent efforts, efficient methods for finding
the optimal strategies in Blotto games have been elusive
for almost a century—due to exponential explosion in
the organic solution space—until Ahmadinejad, Dehghani,
Hajiaghayi, Lucier, Mahini, and Seddighin developed the
first polynomial-time algorithm for this fundamental gametheoretical
problem in 2016. However, that breakthrough
polynomial-time solution has some structural limitation. It
applies only to the case where troops are homogeneous with
respect to battlegruounds, as in Borel’s original formulation:
For each battleground, the only factor that matters to the winner’s
payoff is how many troops as opposed to which sets of
troops are opposing one another in that battleground.


In this paper, we consider a more general setting of the
two-player-multi-battleground game, in which multifaceted
resources (troops) may have different contributions to different
battlegrounds. In the case of U.S presidential campaign,
for example, one may interpret this as different types
of resources—human, financial, political—that teams can invest
in each state. We provide a complexity-theoretical evidence
that, in contrast to Borel’s homogeneous setting, finding
optimal strategies in multifaceted Colonel Blotto games
is intractable. We complement this complexity result with
a polynomial-time algorithm that finds approximately optimal
strategies with provable guarantees. We also study a further
generalization when two competitors do not have zerosum/
constant-sum payoffs. We show that optimal strategies
in these two-player-multi-battleground games are as hard to
compute and approximate as Nash equilibria in general noncooperative 
games and economic equilibria in exchange markets.