Organizing ICDM 2005, the Fifth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, has truly been an enlightening experience. We learned firsthand how with a strong resolve, determination, and perseverance, one could overcome even the seemingly insurmountable problems. On August 29, Hurricane Katrina unleashed its fury, bringing death and destruction to New Orleans, the original venue for the ICDM 2005 conference. While the impact of the hurricane on the conference was unclear in the beginning, very soon it became clear that Katrina had seriously crippled the infrastructure of New Orleans. The ICDM 2005 conference organization committee had no choice but to look for an alternate venue. The local arrangements committee wasted no time in springing into action. Faced with the gargantuan problem of finding an alternate venue for a major international conference to be held in a little over 2 months, the committee members re-organized and moved the conference in its entirety to Houston. We would like to convey a very special thanks to these local arrangements committee members, including the faculty and student volunteers from the University of Houston, for their tireless efforts and steadfast diligence in handling this potentially catastrophic crisis. A large conference like ICDM always requires a tremendous effort to be put in by many individuals. We would like to thank the Program Chairs, Prof. Jiawei Han and Prof. Benjamin Wah for putting together an exceptionally strong and exciting technical program, and subjecting each of the record 630 paper submissions to a rigorous reviewing process. We would also like to extend our gratitude to the Workshops Chair, Tutorials Chair, Panels Chairs, Publicity Chairs, Proceedings Chair, Sponsorship Chairs, Program Vice-Chairs, members of the Program Committee and additional reviewers, for the countless hours they devoted to various conference activities (their names all appear elsewhere in the proceedings). We would like to thank the Steering Committee for the valuable advice and guidance they provided during the course of the year, and especially during the difficult period following Katrina.