Most optimization problems on an undirected graph reduce in complexity when restricted to instances on a t.ree. A recent result [3] for probabiistically approsimating graph metrics by trees such that no edge &retches (in an expected sense) by more than a factor of O(log2 n) has resulted in several approximation algorithms which exploit the ease of solving problems on trees. The tree construct,ion in [3] is inherently randomized and a natural question to ask is whether approximation algorithms which use this construction can be derandomized. We present a general framework for derandomizing approximation algorithms which use the above t.ree construction as a primitive. Let II be a graph optimization problem which can be expressed as an integer program with O-l variables Z(e) for each edge and with an objective function expressible as *Supported by a Stanford Graduate Fellowship, an AR0 MURI Grant DAAH04961-0007 and NSF Award GGR-9357849, with matching funds from IBM, Schhnnberger Foundation, Shell Foundation, and Xerox Corporation. Email: mosesQcs.stanford.edu. tsupported by an IBM Cooperative Fellowship, an AR0 MURI Grant DAAHO496-1-0007 and NSF Award GGR-9357849, with matching funds from IBM, Schhnnberger Foundation, Shell Foundation, and Xerox Corporation. Email: chekuriQcs.atauford.edu. *Supported by Center for Telecommunications at Stanford, AR0 Grants DAAHO495-l-0121/ DAAG55-97-l-0221, and NSF Grants GGR9304971/ GGR9307045. Email: agorlQcs.stanford.edu. %upported by an AR0 MURI Grant DAAH0496-1-0007 and NSF Award GGR-9357349, with matching funds from IBM, Schlumberger Foundation, Shell Foundation, and Xerox Corporation. Email: sudiptoOcs.stauford.edu. CeEE%(e) . c(e). Given an optimal solution to LP relaxation of the integer program, we show that we can map the solution to a tree approximation of t,he graph with at most an O(logn loglogn) blow-up in the value of the objective function. This can then be coupled with a deterministic LP rounding procedure on the tree to obtain a completely deterministic approximation algorithm for II. We apply this framework to the group Steiner tree problem, the k-median problem and the minimum communication cost spanning tree problem. We obtain the first deterministic approximation algorithms for these problems which match t,he best known randomized approsimations. To do this, we design novel deterministic schemes to round the LP solution for t.hese problems on trees. For the group Steiner tree problem we obtain an approximation ratio of O(log2 n log k log log n), and for the k-median problem we obtain a ratio of O(log k log log k). We believe that our rounding procedure on trees for the group Steiner tree problem is of independent interest.