Welcome to Las Vegas and to ACM MobiCom 2011, the 17th Annual Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking. MobiCom has been the premier venue for top quality research in mobile computing and networking for years. The centerpiece of the conference is the technical program of MobiCom 2011, which has been put together through the significant efforts of the entire community, especially through the hard work of all submitting authors, and the diligence of the Technical Program Committee members and external reviewers. We hope you have a stimulating, enjoyable, and fruitful experience at the conference! 
 
As in past years, the technical program consists of a thought-provoking mixture of papers spanning wireless communications, wireless and mobile networking, and mobile computing. They span all layers of wireless systems, from applications to the physical layer, and cover a whole gamut of topics including energy management, spectrum management, mobile phone applications, duplex wireless, mobile video, data anonymization, multiple access, infrastructureless networking, social sensing, and localization. The program consists of 29 papers, selected from 214 submissions received from 24 countries worldwide, after a thorough three-stage review process followed by a face-to-face technical program committee (TPC) meeting in Murray Hill, NJ, USA. In the review process, we received 760 reviews, or about 3.6 reviews on average per paper. In the first stage, each paper received a minimum of three reviews, after which 106 papers advanced to the second stage. Nearly all second-stage papers received one or more additional reviews. In the third stage, additional reviews were sought for a small number of papers. 
 
The review process also involved online discussions through which about 60 papers were selected for further discussion at the two-day, in-person TPC meeting. The meeting itself was infused with vigorous debate and thoughtful discussion, and remained lively till the very end, an indication of the TPC's dedication to upholding MobiCom's reputation as the premier mobile computing and networking conference.