Shared electric scooters (e-scooters) have been increasingly popular because of their characteristics of convenience and eco-friendliness. Due to their shared nature and widespread usage, e-scooters usually have a short lifespan (e.g., two to five months[2]), which makes it important to predict the remaining lifespan accurately, ensuring timely replacements. While several studies have focused on the lifespan prediction of various systems, such as batteries and bridges, they present a two-fold drawback. Firstly, they require significant manual labor or additional sensor resources to ascertain the explicit status of the object, rendering them cost-ineffective. Secondly, these studies assume that future usage is similar as the historical usage. To solve these limitations, we aim at accurately predicting the remaining lifespan of e-scooters without extra cost, and its essence is to accurately represent its current status and anticipate its future usage. However, it is challenging because: i) lack of explicit rules for the e-scooters' status representation; and ii) e-scooters' future usage may significantly differ from their historical usage. In this paper, we design a framework called RLIFE, whose key insight is modeling user behaviors from trip transactions is of great importance in predicting the Remaining LIFespan of shared E-scooters. Specifically, we introduce an unsupervised contrastive learning component to learn the e-scooters' status representation over time considering degradation, where user preferences are served as a status reflector; We further design an LSTM-based recursive component to dynamically predict uncertain future usage, upon which we fuse the current status and predicted usage of the e-scooter for its remaining lifespan prediction. Extensive experiments are conducted on large-scale, real-world datasets collected from an e-scooter company. It shows that RLIFE improves the baselines by 35.67% and benefits from the learned user preferences and predicted future usage.