Click-Through Rate (CTR) prediction is becoming increasingly vital in many industrial applications, such as recommendations and online advertising. How to precisely capture users' dynamic and evolving interests from previous interactions (e.g., clicks, purchases, etc.) is a challenging task in CTR prediction. Mainstream approaches focus on disentangling user interests in a heuristic way or modeling user interests into a static representation. However, these approaches overlook the importance of users' current intent and the complex interactions between their current intent and global interests. To address these concerns, in this paper, we propose a novel intent-enhanced user interest modeling for click-through rate prediction in large-scale e-commerce recommendations, abbreviated as IUI. Methodologically, different from existing works, we consider users' recent interactions to be inspired by their implicit intent and then leverage an intent-aware network to model their current local interests in a more precise and fine-grained manner. In addition, to obtain a more stable co-dependent global and local interest representation, we employ a co-attention network capable of activating the corresponding interest in global-level interactions and capturing the dynamic interactions between global- and local-level interaction behaviors. Finally, we incorporate self-supervised learning into the model training by maximizing the mutual information between the global and local representations obtained via the above two networks to enhance the CTR prediction performance. Compared with existing methods, IUI benefits from the different granularity of user interest to generate a more accurate and comprehensive preference representation. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods in various metrics on three real-world datasets. In addition, an online A/B test deployed on the JD recommendation platforms shows a promising improvement across multiple evaluation metrics.