From data mining to knowledge discovery: an overview, Usama M. Fayyad etal. Part 1 Foundations: The process of knowledge discovery in databases: a human-centred approach, Ronald J. Brachman and Tej Anand Graphical models for discovering knowledge, Wray Buntine A statistical perspective on knowledge discovery in databases, John Elder IV and Daryl Pregibon. Part 2 Classification and clustering: Inductive logic programming and knowledge discovery in databases, Saso Dzeroski Bayesian classification (autoclass): theory and results, Peter Cheeseman and John Stutz Discovering informative patterns and data cleaning, Isabelle Guyon et al Transforming rules and trees into comprehensive structures, Brian R. Gaines. Part 3 Trend and deviation analysis: Finding patterns in time series: a dynamic programming approach, Donald J. Berndt and James Clifford explore: a multipattern and multistrategy discovery assistant, Willi Klosgen. Part 4 Dependency derivation: Bayesian networks for knowledge discovery, David Heckerman Fast discovery of association rules, Rakesh Agrawal et al From contingency tables to variation forms of knowledge in databases, Robert Zembowicz and Jan M. Zytkow. Part 5 Integrated discovery systems: Integrating inductive and deductive reasoning for data mining, Evangelos Simoudis, et al Metaqueries for data mining, Wei-Min Shen et al exploration of the power of attribute-oriented induction in data mining, Jiawei Han and Yongjian Fu. Part 6 Next generation database systems: Using inductive learning to generate rules for semantic query optimization, Chun-Nan Hsu and Craig A. Knoblock Data surveyor: searching the nuggets in parallel, Marcel Holsheimer, et al. Part 7 Automating the analysis and cataloguing of sky surveys, Usama M. Fayyad et al Selecting and reporting what is interesting: the KEFIR application to healthcare data, Christopher J. Matheus Modeling subjective uncertainty in image annotation, Padhraic Smyth et al Predicting equity returns from securities data with minimal rule generation, Chidanand Apte and Se June Hong From data mining to knowledge discovery: current challenges and future directions, Ramasamy Uthurusamy. Appendices: Knowledge discovery in databases terminology data mining, and knowledge discovery Internet resources, Gregory Piatetsky-Shapiro.