In the classic Correlation Clustering problem introduced by Bansal, Blum, and Chawla (FOCS 2002), the input is a complete graph where edges are labeled either + or −, and the goal is to find a partition of the vertices that minimizes the sum of the +edges across parts plus the sum of the -edges within parts. In recent years, Chawla, Makarychev, Schramm and Yaroslavtsev (STOC 2015) gave a 2.06-approximation by providing a near-optimal rounding of the standard LP, and Cohen-Addad, Lee, Li, and Newman (FOCS 2022, 2023) finally bypassed the integrality gap of 2 for this LP giving a 1.73-approximation for the problem. While introducing new ideas for Correlation Clustering, their algorithm is more complicated than typical approximation algorithms in the following two aspects: (1) It is based on two different relaxations with separate rounding algorithms connected by the round-or-cut procedure. (2) Each of the rounding algorithms has to separately handle seemingly inevitable correlated rounding errors, coming from correlated rounding of Sherali-Adams and other strong LP relaxations. In order to create a simple and unified framework for Correlation Clustering similar to those for typical approximate optimization tasks, we propose the cluster LP as a strong linear program that might tightly capture the approximability of Correlation Clustering. It unifies all the previous relaxations for the problem. It is exponential-sized, but we show that it can be (1+є)-approximately solved in polynomial time for any є > 0, providing the framework for designing rounding algorithms without worrying about correlated rounding errors; these errors are handled uniformly in solving the relaxation. We demonstrate the power of the cluster LP by presenting a simple rounding algorithm, and providing two analyses, one analytically proving a 1.49-approximation and the other solving a factor-revealing SDP to show a 1.437-approximation. Both proofs introduce principled methods by which to analyze the performance of the algorithm, resulting in a significantly improved approximation guarantee. Finally, we prove an integrality gap of 4/3 for the cluster LP, showing our 1.437-upper bound cannot be drastically improved. Our gap instance directly inspires an improved NP-hardness of approximation with a ratio 24/23 ≈ 1.042; no explicit hardness ratio was known before.