In AI research on explanation, the mechanisms used to construct explanations have traditionally been neutral to the environment in which the explanations are sought. Our view is that the explanation process cannot be isolated from the situation in which it occurs. Without considering the intended use for an explanation, the explanation construction process cannot be properly focussed; without considering the situation the process cannot act effectively to gather corroborating information. The emphasis of this research is to view explanation as a means to an end and in this work the end is the successful functioning of the system requesting explanation. We develop a model of explanation as a situated, utility-based, hierarchical, goal-driven process. Explanation is viewed as a memory process of adapting prior explanations of similar problems to fit the current situation. By using case-based reasoning we incorporate prior experience during the explanation process and also generate an initial set of hypotheses in a relatively inexpensive way. The system under development consists of a planner, acting in a simple simulated world, integrated with a case-based explainer. The over-arching goal of the explanation system is to aid the formulation and execution of plans. The occurrence of a planning or execution failure triggers explanation. Given the goals of the planner the explanation system has to decide when to explain, what to explain and how to explain in a dynamic environment. Related to earlier work on goal-directed diagnosis (Rymon 1993), a major issue being addressed in this research is how contextual changes influence the ongoing explanation process. As an example of the issues to address consider the following scenario implemented in our system. The planner is trying to achieve the goal of catching a plane and generates two possible plans: driving to the airport or taking a taxi. Choosing the option of driving, the plan steps are executed in a simulated world and it is detected that the car does not start. In trying to determine why the car will not start our model of the ensuing explanation process involves: