There have been huge changes in modern manufacturing industries. The focal point in recent advances is to increase the demand by identifying and tracking objects using real-time information.1 Nowadays, there have been industrial revolutions in dynamic industry. Products, markets, technologies and regulatory requirement have to be adapted in modern assembly systems.2 This has led manufactures to be more innovative to attract the global market by their conventional manufacturing methods which requires new manufacturing operations and effective factory management. Recent advanced manufacturers have been working on creating a great demand in modern industrial engineering systems regarding producing, transporting, tracking and identifying materials.3 Modern automation and concepts are used to recover high number of product variants, smaller lot sizes, reduced time to market and shorter lifecycles of products. Therefore, modern material handling system has been the main focus among manufacturers in recent decades because it is very critical component of today’s manufacturing processes.4 There has been a vast change in material handling system (MHS) design. Modern technology has added a wide range of features in manufacturing material handling systems to compete in global markets. This has led to a rapid development in production automation, process, control, information technologies and networking.5 Thus, manufactures have been seeking to develop an intelligent material handling system in manufacturing processes in which adding product variants and scaling production are enabled which led to high accuracy and adaptability.6 In modern technology, an intelligent material handling system is constructed in a way that products, work stations and system are emerged by improving the communication between units in the system to create more adaptable control of assembly flow and system performance. These communication are promoted by the aid of autonomy.7 Therefore, agent based material handling system is mostly used in recent decades due its efficiency to handle material. In realworld manufacturing systems, agent system theories have been used to combine and develop the schedule of processing operations with total processing time of the tasks released by material handling system. Julie et al. have been developed the algorithms for agent based material handling system by allocating and executing processes for all machines within the system.8 The basic concept of agent based is the allocation process by considering the information that matches with all system entities.9 All entities structure of software have different types of internal evaluations.10 Thus, allocation decisions which corresponds to the specific function are made based on these embedded entities structure by the aid of the agent-based architecture11. However, the functionality of material handling entities in agentbased architecture is shown in Figure 1. In Figure 1, there are three fundamental level which are Constructs system level schedule, System decision making units and change existing schedules. Constructs system level schedule is responsible for global view agent while System decision making units are responsible for order agents. Furthermore, level three at the bottom is responsible for material handling agents. These three levels are integrated precisely with system monitoring and database. Global view agent is the head of this process. Its task is to communicate only with order agents. Then, order agents communicate with material handling agents. Material handling systems are very significant in many environmental aspects due to its functionality in manufacturing process. Assembling material handling system is essential for many different industries. Statics show that automotive systems in manufacturing processes can recover vast costs to the companies.13 This briefly can be achieved by improving the combination of