Malware detection at the hardware level has emerged recently as a promising solution to improve the security of computing systems. Hardware-based malware detectors take advantage of Machine Learning (ML) classifiers to detect pattern of malicious applications at run-time. These ML classifiers are trained using low-level features such as processor Hardware Performance Counters (HPCs) data which are captured at run-time to appropriately represent the application behaviour. Recent studies show the potential of standard ML-based classifiers for detecting malware using analysis of large number of microarchitectural events, more than the very limited number of HPC registers available in today’s microprocessors which varies from 2 to 8. This results in executing the application more than once to collect the required data, which in turn makes the solution less practical for effective run-time malware detection. Our results show a clear trade-off between the performance of standard ML classifiers and the number and diversity of HPCs available in modern microprocessors. This paper proposes a machine learning-based solution to break this trade-off to realize effective run-time detection of malware. We propose ensemble learning techniques to improve the performance of the hardware-based malware detectors despite using a very small number of microarchitectural events that are captured at run-time by existing HPCs, eliminating the need to run an application several times. For this purpose, eight robust machine learning models and two well-known ensemble learning classifiers applied on all studied ML models (sixteen in total) are implemented for malware detection and precisely compared and characterized in terms of detection accuracy, robustness, performance (accuracy × robustness), and hardware overheads. The experimental results show that the proposed ensemble learning-based malware detection with just 2 HPCs using ensemble technique outperforms standard classifiers with 8 HPCs by up to 17%. In addition, it can match the robustness and performance of standard ML-based detectors with 16 HPCs while using only 4 HPCs allowing effective run-time detection of malware.