Graph-based methods for high-dimensional Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) search have achieved remarkable success. Recent studies have revealed that DCO (distance comparison operation) is a bottleneck in graph-based methods due to distance computations. Optimizations such as ADSampling, DDC and DADE are employed to alleviate this issue by terminating the distance computation early. Although these optimizations achieve significant speedup, they rely on an estimation-and-testing process for early termination. Their effectiveness diminishes when SIMD (Single Instruction Multiple Data) acceleration is enabled in distance computation, the cost introduced in estimation-and-testing process may outweigh the benefit of early termination, leading to performance degradation. Furthermore, the best-first-search strategy employed in graph-based methods requires DCO for all neighboring points, incurring redundant distance computation. To address these issues, in this paper, we first perform a cost analysis to reveal the inefficiency of existing DCO optimizations under SIMD-enabled setting. We then analyze the current search strategy to demonstrate that not all neighboring nodes require DCO. Based on these analyses, we present SkipComputing to accelerate the ANN search. Specifically, we first propose a subspace-based candidate search strategy to identify promising points for DCO, thereby eliminating the reliance on estimation-and-testing based DCO optimization for low potential points. We then develop a lower-bound pruning method based on distance decomposition to enable early termination of distance computations in DCO. Finally, we optimize the data layout to reduce the overhead of random memory access during candidate search. When SIMD is enabled, experimental results show that SkipComputing substantially outperforms HNSW, achieving up to 6x performance improvement. Furthermore, it achieves up to 2.7x speedup over state-of-the-art optimization methods while maintaining competitive space efficiency.