Modern information retrieval (IR) consists of a series of processes, including query expansion, candidate item recall, item ranking, item re-ranking, etc. The final ranked item list will be exposed to the user, which will accordingly provide feedback through some expected actions such as browsing and click. Such a whole process can be formulated as a decision-making process where the agent is the IR system while the environment is the specific user. This decision-making process can be one-step or sequential, depending on the scenarios or the ways of problem formulation. Since 2013, Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has been a fast-developing technique for decision-making tasks. The high capacity of deep learning models is incorporated in the reinforcement learning framework so that the agent may successfully handle complex decision-making. In recent years, there have been a bunch of publications attempting to leverage DRL techniques for different IR tasks such as ad hoc retrieval, learning to rank and interactive recommendation. Nonetheless, the fundamental theory, the principle of RL methods or the recognized experimental protocols of decision-making in IR, has not been well developed, making it challenging to evaluate the correctness of a proposed method or judge whether the reported experimental performance is valid. We propose the second DRL4IR workshop at SIGIR 2021, which provides a venue to gather the academia researchers and industry practitioners to present the recent progress of DRL techniques for IR. More importantly, people in this workshop are expected to discuss more about the fundamental principles of formulating a decision-making IR task, the underlying theory as well as the practical effectiveness of the experiment protocol design, which would foster further research on novel methodologies, innovative experimental findings and new applications of DRL for information retrieval. DRL4IR organized at SIGIR'20 was one of the most popular workshops and attracted over 200 conference attendees. In this year, we will pay more attention to fundamental research topics and recent applications, and expect about 300 participants.