It gives us great pleasure to welcome you to ACM MobiCom 2002, the Eighth ACM International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking in Atlanta, Georgia. MobiCom has grown in prestige since its inception in 1995 to become the leading technical meeting to hear about the latest and most exiting developments in mobile networking and computing. As the global interest in mobile and wireless research and development surges, the interest in MobiCom has grown each year. This year's response to the call for papers reflects that growing interest. We received 364 paper submissions from 28 countries, representing a growth of 30% over last year's record-breaking number of submissions.The job of the program committee was made more difficult by the large volume of submissions. However, our program committee responded to this challenge with their willingness to go the extra mile. All submitted papers were judged based on their quality through double-blind reviewing, where the identities of the authors were withheld from the reviewers. The review process included a quick reject phase (for papers that were clearly out of scope or substandard), and, first and second round reviews. The program committee members reviewed all papers with each paper receiving three independent first round reviews. This was followed by a second round review, which promoted consensus between different reviewers. During the second round review phase there was considerable amount of online discussion for each paper in order to reach consensus, with the result that papers were either recommended to be rejected or to be further discussed at the program committee meeting. Additional reviews were sort prior to the program committee meeting particularly in the case of papers that had reviews with diverging opinions or where no consensus could be reached during the second round review phase. Prior to the meeting each paper had on average five reviews (including the second round review) from program committee members.The program committee meeting was held at Columbia University on Monday June 24, 2002. Sixty-six papers were discussed at the meeting which started at 8.30 AM and completed with the selection of a program of 26 papers at 7.30 PM. Forty-five out of fifty program committee members were physically present at the meeting with each committee member reviewing on average 26 papers. We are indebted to the program committee for their time, effort and enthusiasm. The quality of the conference is testament to their expertise and dedication. We thoroughly enjoyed working with them.We are extremely pleased with the final technical paper program and would like to thank all the authors that submitted papers to MobiCom 2002. The selected papers cover a broad range of topics that attendees will find of great interest including sessions on security, media access control, transport layer issues, WLANs, sensor networks, energy efficient systems, wireless QOS, systems issues, and future research challenges. The paper program is complemented by informative tutorials, thought provoking panels, an exceptional student poster session (new to MobiCom), and workshops that reflect important new research directions.