Recent advances in Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have changed the landscape of modern graph analytics. The complexity of GNN training and the scalability challenges have also sparked interest from the systems community, with efforts to build systems that provide higher efficiency and schemes to reduce costs. However, we observe that many such systems basically "reinvent the wheel" of much work done in the database world on scalable graph analytics engines. Further, they often tightly couple the scalability treatments of graph data processing with that of GNN training, resulting in entangled complex problems and systems that often do not scale well on one of those axes.
 
 In this paper, we ask a fundamental question: How far can we push existing systems for scalable graph analytics and deep learning (DL) instead of building custom GNN systems? Are compromises inevitable on scalability and/or runtimes? We propose Lotan, the first scalable and optimized data system for full-batch GNN training with
 decoupled scaling
 that bridges the hitherto siloed worlds of graph analytics systems and DL systems. Lotan offers a series of technical innovations, including re-imagining GNN training as query plan-like dataflows, execution plan rewriting, optimized data movement between systems, a GNN-centric graph partitioning scheme, and the first known GNN model batching scheme. We prototyped Lotan on top of GraphX and PyTorch. An empirical evaluation using several real-world benchmark GNN workloads reveals a promising nuanced picture: Lotan significantly surpasses the scalability of state-of-the-art custom GNN systems, while often matching or being only slightly behind on time-to-accuracy metrics in some cases. We also show the impact of our system optimizations. Overall, our work shows that the GNN world can indeed benefit from building on top of scalable graph analytics engines. Lotan's new level of scalability can also empower new ML-oriented research on ever-larger graphs and GNNs.
