Tire wear is a leading cause of automobile accidents globally. Beyond safety, tire wear affects performance and is an important metric that decides tire replacement, one of the biggest maintenance expense of the global trucking industry. We believe that it is important to measure and monitor tire wear in all automobiles. Current approach to measure tire wear is manual and extremely tedious. Embedding sensor electronics in tires to measure tire wear is challenging, given the inhospitable temperature, pressure and dynamics of the tire. Further, off-tire sensors placed in the well such as laser range-finders are vulnerable to road debris that may settle in tire grooves. This paper presents Osprey, the first on-automobile, mmWave sensing system that can measure accurate tire wear continuously and is robust to road debris. Osprey's key innovation is to leverage existing, high volume, automobile mmWave RADAR, place it in the tire well of automobiles and observe reflections of the RADAR's signal from the tire surface and grooves to measure tire wear, even in the presence of debris. We achieve this through a super-resolution Inverse Synthetic Aperture RADAR algorithm that exploits the natural rotation of the tire and improves range resolution to sub-mm. We show how our system can eliminate debris by attaching specialized metallic structures in the grooves that behave as spatial codes and offer a unique signature, when coupled with the rotation of the tire. In addition to tire wear sensing, we demonstrate the ability to detect and locate unsafe, metallic foreign objects such as nails lodged in the tire. We evaluate Osprey on commercial tires mounted on mechanical, tire-rotation rig and passenger car. We test Osprey at different speeds, in the presence of different types of debris, different levels of debris, on different terrains, and different levels of automobile vibration. We achieve a median absolute tire wear error of 0.68 mm across all our experiments. Osprey also locates foreign objects lodged in the tire with an error of 1.7 cm and detects metallic foreign objects with an accuracy of 92%.