The most common maintenance operation for a flow measurement device is to verify its calibration. For instance, an orifice measurement is checked by verifying the zero and span of the delta-pressure transmitter. Unfortunately, this is not a flow-measurement calibration; it is simply verification that one component, the delta-pressure measurement, is within tolerance. Micro Motion Coriolis flowmeters are used widely because, among other things, their calibration is very stable over time. Even so, the calibration may need to be verified periodically, for example to meet ISO requirements. To address this customer need, Micro Motion has introduced a new feature called structural integrity meter verification. Structural integrity meter verification uses Micro Motion's new enhanced core processor to provide an in situ verification of flow and density calibrations. Structural integrity meter verification is an improvement over the orifice delta-pressure verification because structural integrity meter verification is able to verify the flow tubes as well as the electronics. The purpose of this document is to describe the underlying technology of structural integrity meter verification and answer some frequently asked questions. The first step in understanding how flowmeter verification works is to review how a Coriolis flowmeter measures fluid density and mass flow. The Coriolis flowmeter can be considered as a simple spring-mass system (Figure 1). The mass of the flow tube(s) plus the mass of the fluid provide the total mass of the sensor. The flow tube(s) act as the spring. The frequency of the spring-mass system is used to measure density. A characteristic of a simple spring-mass system, and therefore a Coriolis meter, is the resonant or natural frequency of vibration. The resonant frequency is proportional to the square root of the stiffness to mass ratio, as shown in Equation 1. Since the total mass of Equation 1 is comprised of the fluid mass and the tube mass, Equation 1 can be rewritten to isolate the mass of the fluid as shown in Equation 2. Equation 2 then is the basis of the density measurement performed by all Coriolis meters. The resonant frequency of the Coriolis meter changes with fluid mass (density). Therefore, the fluid density can be determined from variations in the resonant frequency. Also note that Equation 2 introduces two other parameters, namely the Figure 1. Spring-mass system K M total } frequency stiffness total mass