Since 1992, the ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM) has brought together leading researchers and developers from the knowledge management, information retrieval, and data management communities to discuss cutting-edge research on advanced knowledge and information systems. We are pleased to present the 26th edition of CIKM on 6-10 November, 2017, at the Pan Pacific Singapore hotel, with the special theme of Smart Cities, Smart Nations. 
 
This year our attendees will enjoy four keynote speakers: Rajeev Rastogi (Amazon), Qiang Yang (HKUST), Rada Mihalcea (Michigan), and K Ananth Krishnan (Tata Consultancy Services). In 6-7 parallel sessions, our program includes presentations of 171 full research papers, 119 short research papers, and 30 demonstrations of new research advances. The program's focus this year can be seen at a glance in the word cloud at right, constructed from the titles of all accepted research papers. Also on offer are eight tutorials on timely research topics, and six collocated workshops on topics ranging from history to transportation, biomedicine to bias. 
 
We are excited about our greatly expanded data analytics competition this year, the CIKM AnalytiCup. During the past nine months, over 1500 teams from all over the world have vied to win over $60,000 in AnalytiCup prizes and travel money by solving real-world analytics problems posed by our corporate sponsors Alibaba/Shenzhen Meteorological Bureau, DataSpark, and Lazada. A fourth competition, a weekend-long hackathon sponsored by DHL, takes place immediately before the conference. The finalists from all four competitions come together on 6 November for a final showdown in front of corporate judges. Solution summaries from finalist teams in the first three competitions can be found in these proceedings. 
 
Also new this year are several other events aimed directly at practitioners. During the main conference, we are offering hands-on tutorials on the hot topics of scalable deep learning and scalable data science. The Case Studies track, intended to highlight the experiences and lessons learned by early adopters, debuts this year with 23 studies of technology adoption in interesting applications. And immediately before the main conference, CIKMconnect brings together students and industry for posters, technical discussions, recruiting events, and networking. 
 
It takes a village to produce a major conference! Our program committee chairs, senior PC and PC members valiantly and gracefully handled a record total number of submissions: 855 full research papers, 419 short research papers, 80 demos, and 103 case studies. Each submission was reviewed by three program committee members, each a recognized expert in the field, and an independent committee selected the full paper awards recipients.