CHI is more than a conference, it is an international community of researchers and practitioners who want to make a difference. Everything we do is focused on uncovering, critiquing and celebrating radically new ways for people and technology to evolve together. People in their everyday contexts, in diverse regions of the world, from very different backgrounds, with alternative outlooks on life drive this innovation. As you take part in the conference sessions we really hope you will experience how powerful this people-centred approach to technological transformation can be. CHI as a conference is now in its 32nd year and has grown to become the premier international forum on human-computer interaction, gathering us all to share innovative interactive insights that shape people's lives. CHI draws together a multidisciplinary community from around the globe. 
 
Our great strength is our ability to bring together students and experts, researchers and practitioners, scientists, designers and engineers, drawing from their rich perspectives to create new visions of humancomputer interaction. This year's conference theme is One of a CHInd. We chose this nearly two years ago as we began planning for this event. It has helped us focus our efforts and we hope you will use it to keep your eyes open to the bigger picture amongst all the excitement, range of presentations and activities at the conference. 
 
CHI 2014 is One of CHInd because it is a celebration of the conference's one of a kind diversity; from the broad range of backgrounds of its attendees, to the diverse spectrum of communities and fields that the conference and its research have an impact on. CHI 2014 will take place at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre in Toronto, Canada, a city itself known for its one of a kind cultural diversity. But, CHI 2014 is more than a celebration of the diversity of our community and conference setting. 
 
We hope that this year's event, more than anything, reminds you that the "people," "participants," "users" or "humans" that you hear described throughout this week are actually uniquely wonderful individuals full of hopes, concerns, joys and frustrations. CHI is here to serve all of these one of a kinds. 
 
CHI 2014 features two outstanding keynote speakers: Booker prize winning author, Margaret Atwood and leading UX designer, Scott Jenson. 
 
New for CHI 2014, we have Provoke! Wisdom! Impact! plenary talks first thing each morning on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Come along, join the crowd and be energised by our speakers who will each bring in their experience of the Big Picture to inspire us. The talks will be short - twenty minutes - and then the rest of the day's programme will begin. 
 
We are also delighted to host a timely retrospective exhibition on wearable technology curated by Thad Starner and Clint Zeagler. CHI 2014 also includes two days of focused workshops and four days of technical content, including CHI's prestigious technical program, with 16 parallel sessions of rigorously reviewed research Papers, engaging Panels, Case Studies and Special Interest Groups (SIGs), an extensive Course program and invited talks from SIGCHI's award winners: Steve Whittaker, Gillian Grampton Smith and Richard Ladner. 
 
We also host student research, design, and game competitions, provocative alt.chi presentations and last-minute SIGs for discussing current topics. Interactivity hands-on demonstrations showcase the best of interactive technology. We also highlight over 241 Work-In-Progress posters: this year we have added some features to these sessions to better help you get the most out of the exciting, early stage work on show; do go along and engage with the authors about their work. Evening events include the CHI 2014 conference reception, Sponsors and University events, local performances and the Job Fair. 
 
We received over 3200 submissions and accepted nearly 1000 that will appear in the ACM Digital Library. To help you navigate through this immense program, there are a number of online and digital resources from the conference website to our mobile apps. You can also browse the videos, papers and extended abstracts on the CHI 2014 USB Key. But, CHI 2014 is about being in Toronto so perhaps the best way to select from and experience the event is by asking for pointers and chatting with your fellow attendees, our wonderful student volunteers, the information desk helpers or any of this year's committee. 
 
We are all here to make your experience as useful and enjoyable as possible. We are deeply indebted to our vast number of volunteers, without whom CHI 2014 would not be possible, including over 3800 reviewers, over 180 senior members of the program committee, nearly 100 members of the CHI 2014 conference committee and, of course, the more than 180 student volunteers. We thank you all! We are honored and excited by the opportunity to host CHI 2014 and wish you a productive and enjoyable stay in Toronto!