It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2011 International Workshop on DETecting and Exploiting Cultural diversiTy on the Social Web -- DETECT'11. 
 
The rapid growth of Social Media originates in the ease of collaborative content generation and content sharing for non-expert mass users. In the recent years, substantial research progress was achieved regarding information retrieval, text mining, information filtering and recommendation in social media. However, some fundamental questions remain still open. One of the key challenges for Social Web research is the deeper understanding of the intercultural and multi-lingual nature of online communities like Wikipedia, Facebook, or Twitter. In particular, this is the case in settings where differences in culture and language coincide, e.g. when dealing with resources in African, Arabian, Asian and Western languages. Understanding content and user relations across languages and countries, intercultural opinion differences, and country/language-specific topics of interest may allow for deeper insights into such Social Web communities. Promising research directions include multi-lingual retrieval, mining of inter-cultural societal trends, as well as detecting controversial opinions across countries, cultures, and languages. Our workshop DETECT (an acronym for DETecting and Exploiting Cultural diversiTy on the social web) aims to facilitate inter-disciplinary research on complex dependencies between culture, language, and content on the social web. 
 
DETECT topics of interest are in the key scope of recent IR research on social media. However, they also offer the possibility of intensive inter-disciplinary cooperation of experts from computer science, linguistics, psychology, sociology, and other domains. Consequently, DETECT aims to establish and to facilitate inter-disciplinary collaboration of researchers from various fields in the context of Social Web communities. 
 
The call for papers attracted high-quality submissions from Europe, United States, and Japan. The program committee accepted six full papers that cover a variety of relevant topics, including content diversification, understanding of user behavior, automatic content organization using cultural, lingual and behavioral aspects, as well as content semantics. The program is supplemented by keynotes closely related to cultural diversity of Social Media: diversification / personalization of recommendations and detection of cultural aspects in user behavior. 
 
With our workshop we aim at bringing together researchers and practitioners dealing with intercultural, multi-lingual and multi-national information environments in distinct contexts, and discover synergies between their research fields. Consequently, the last DETECT session will be organized as a plenary break-up discussion on lessons learned, open issues, and potential follow-up events. In particular, we aim to establish an inter-disciplinary special interest group on inter-cultural/crosslingual analysis of Social Media.