It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the WISE/TESTBEDS joint workshop. A long-term cooperation between academia and industry is every important factor in obtaining success in industrial-relevant research, research validation in a full-scale industrial context, innovation and technology transfer. There are many examples of a long-term good cooperation that have led to many great research and innovation results. At the same time maintaining a continuous cooperation is very challenging due to organizational changes, or changes in business goral of a company, or inadequate motivations factor from academia site to keep long-term close relations.By long-term we mean a period of at least six months several years or several decades of years. The goal of the WISE workshop is to bring researchers and practitioners together to exchange experiences of cooperation between academia and industry, with emphasis on experiences and new ideas in achieving and maintaining a long-term cooperation. 
 
This year WISE includes a session of papers from the International Workshop on TESTing Techniques & Experimentation Benchmarks for Event-Driven Software (TESTBEDS). TESTBEDS aims to increase the cross-fertilization of automated testing methods for the emerging popular event driven systems, which include Graphical User Interfaces, Web and Mobile applications, Network protocols among others. An event driven system is typically implemented as a collection of event handlers that respond to inputs (internal/external events) or other applications. This non-sequential nature of interaction creates a challenge for testing because the outcome of an event handler may depend on the state and on the sequence of preceding events and the potential event sequence space is enormous. TESTBEDS goal is to promote a discussion of how to diminish the effort in testing these systems, either by using automatic methods, or by using abstractions and promoting reusability, for instance, using test applications that work on different platforms or that reuse the same test strategy after a minor configuration process. Another aim of TESTBEDS is to encourage the development and sharing of benchmark applications and tools for evaluating new testing techniques. 
 
We also encourage attendees to attend the keynote talk presentations. Academia-Industry Collaboration - Ways to a Strong and Beneficial Partnership, Christian Reinisch, TTTech, Austria 
 
We hope that you will find this program interesting and thought-provoking and that the workshop will provide you with a valuable opportunity to share ideas with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world.