[ABSTRACT] When silviculture researchers in central Europe were gathering together to form IUFRO in 1892, forest products researchers were occupied with making useful forest products and conserving the forest resource through wise use. Forest products researchers did not become an active part of IUFRO until 50 years later. Research in forest products was stimulated by World War I and II–wood was essential for airplanes, ships, packaging, construction, and derived products-As World War II drew to a close, the newly established United Nations provided a forum for bringing together efforts that would encourage world stability and peaceful development. Utilization of forest resources was an important element in this effort, and those involved in this area found common ground. Initial efforts were focused on mechanical conversion of wood, but wood quality, wood chemistry, and wood protection soon captured the attention of researchers. Meanwhile, IUFRO had been growing in both size and scope. The organization recognized the need to include the effective utilization of forest products, together with other aspects of forestry, as a key element in ensuring that forests could meet the increasing demands of society. Thus, forest products research was incorporated as Section 41 of IUFRO at the XI Congress in Rome in 1953. This program was greatly expanded at the XIII IUFRO Congress in Vienna in 1961. The rapid growth in size and scope of IUFRO during the next decade led to a complete reorganization, which was formalized at the XV Congress in Gainesville, Florida in 1971. From this arose Division 5, which included subject groups on wood quality, wood engineering, wood protection, and wood processing, each with several specialized working parties, and a project group on properties and utilization of tropical woods. All of these reflected the increasing scientific and technical needs for wise use of the forest resource in both domestic and international industry and the increasing trade in forest products from the tropics as well the industrialized world. Since that time, the program of Division 5 has broadened to recognize new needs for research on forest 'products as scientists in various parts of the world have sought a forum for sharing ideas, notes, and accomplishments. The results have been many: (1) new knowledge of wood quality factors, (2) new approaches to the efficient use of wood as an engineering material, (3) effective processing methods to deal with the growing diversity transmitting and discussing information