The urgency of the analyzed issue is due to the study of the basic issues of medical ecology: the dynamics of demographic indicators, the correlation of somatic and reproductive public health, depending on the influence of physical factors of the urban environment on public health on the basis of medical and geographic mapping. The article aims at the analysis of the environmentally determined disorder of the urbanized territory. The leading approach to the study of the issue of medical ecology is a medical and geographical mapping, which allows identifying the most affordable and common areas of multi-component medical and environmental maps. While analyzing the impact of various aspects of the environment on human health, the priority is given to risk factors that directly lead to the emergence of diseases. The contents of the article may be useful to justify the choice of the rational approach to public health as a redistribution mechanism to reallocate the space of ecological niches. OPEN ACCESS INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL & SCIENCE EDUCATION 7669 (Agadzhanyan, Nikityuk & Polunin, 1995) – the section of ecology and the direction in the modern prophylactic medicine analyzing the ties and the dependence of the people’s health and health problems on the factors of the natural, social and technogenic environment. According to the existing concept (Stozharov, 2008) there are certain differences between traditional medicine and ecological medicine (Table 1). In addition, traditional medicine is aimed mainly at identification and treatment of specific aggravated illnesses or symptoms of chronic diseases. The process of diagnostics and treatment is the following: taking anamnesis ( all the data collected during medical examination by the way of asking a patient or people possessing information about their illness); physical examination of a patient; laboratory and instrumental research; formulation of diagnosis; treatment: medical treatment, surgery, radiotherapy, psychotherapy, etc. Table 1. The main differences between traditional and ecological medicine Factors Medicine traditional ecological Man’s health concept It considers healthy organism state in the absence of diagnosed disease. It determines healthy organism state only in case of optimal organs and systems functioning. Approach Insufficient tailor-made Taking into account biochemical and immune individuality of a patient The influence of the environment Not taking ecological factors into consideration Taking the effects of xenobiotics, physical factors, and so on into consideration. Treatment Using unified treatment schemes Strictly individualized treatment Source: The Main Indicators of the Samara Region Health Care System in 2009-2013: Reference book. Edited by G.N. Gridasova (2014), Statistics of Population Health and Health Care in the Samara Region in 2006-2008. Edited by G.N. Corchagina et al. (2009). Materials and Methods In the 90-s in the Russian Federation there were two possibilities to study the territorial distribution of illnesses. The first one was to study the problem using the state statistics which became open for general use from the beginning of “perestroika”. As the result a number of bulletins, reviews and atlases on medical and ecological problems were published. The second possibility was the use of the data collected on some environmentally disadvantaged cities using the automated state information system (ASIS) “Health”. The data from these two sources were not the same. They complemented each other. The state statistics included the data concerning the whole population and within the frame of ASIS “Health” there were studied groups of people living in "dirty" and relatively “clean” areas of industrial centers with hazardous industries. Nowadays ASIS does not work and we can use only official statistics. In spite of many disadvantages of the medical 7670 G. S. ROSENBERG ET AL. statistics (in particular, the absence of etiopathogenetic disease differentiation), it displays the quality of the environment more adequately than the official data on the status of later received on the basis of the instrumental assessment (Krasnoschekov & Rozenberg, 1994). This confidence is based on the fact that a large group of diseases is connected directly with the environment that allows their use as an environment quality indicator (and its various aspects). These are, first of all, pathological conditions caused by endemic geochemical features (proliferative lesions of the thyroid gland, Cashin-Bek disease and so on), climatic factors and regional biocenological characteristics (many parasitic diseases, gaffskaya disease), variability of infectious agents in the environment (for example, virus influenza) , etc. Another large group of pathological processes is associated with industrial activity, with the limited area of influence and the influence on a small contingent of people working in adverse conditions. The third group of diseases occurs under the influence of social causes and population interaction (mainly it is psychogenic pathology: cardiovascular, endocrine disorders, psychiatric disorders). As a “pathogenic” factors an ethnic factor can act (e.g. eating habits, raw fish and meat eating) and genotypic characteristics of populations (genetic abnormalities in alcohol oxidation). With regard to the health problems associated with ethnic peculiarities there are usually discussed disadaptative consequences as a result of lifestyle changes. The ethnic groups living in the extreme social environment may serve as an example. Finally, a large group of diseases, as well as the increase of overall sickness rate (often without sufficient factual justification) is directly associated with intensive water, air and soil pollution as a result of industrial activities. Each of these diseases is characterized by the features (spatial distribution, prevalence in the population, the range of nozological forms), but all of them are causally related to environmental factors. The analysis of environmentally induced diseases of urbanized areas is complicated by: significant fluctuations in intensity of environmental factor impact on limited areas (industrial areas); high migration activity of city residents, a combination of occupational hazards influence and residential area pollution; presence of multi-component pollution, often with different effect of individual factors; The lack of information on cumulative effect and influence of low doses of most pollutants. This is not a complete list which is provided only to illustrate the difficulties that arise in the analysis of sickness rate in terms of ecological position establishment of certain features is in most cases only the pretext for serious research. A number of difficulties in the analysis of diseases can be eliminated when comparing children and adult ones. Finally, purely ecological considerations can be made. The man is on the top of the trophic pyramid and acts as a predator of the highest level. And as anthropogenous impacts primarily “beat” the upper floors of the trophic pyramid, human population health state may be an acceptable indicator of the environment quality. Some methodological approaches of medical ecology will be exemplified. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL & SCIENCE EDUCATION 7671