We develop an 18-item self-report measure of receptiveness to opposing views. Studies 1a and 1b present the scale and report measures of internal, convergent, and discriminant validity. The scale consists of four factors, and is distinct from related measures. In Study 2, more receptive individuals (as measured by our scale) were more willing to consume information from US Senators representing the opposing party. In Study 3, more receptive individuals reported less mind wandering when viewing a speech with which they disagreed. In Study 4, more receptive individuals evaluated supporting and opposing policy arguments more impartially. In Study 5, more receptive liberal voters were more likely to watch President Trump’s inaugural address, evaluated the address in a more balanced manner, and were willing to consider a more heterogeneous selection of relevant news coverage. We discuss the scale as a tool to investigate the role of receptiveness for conflict, decision-making, and collaboration. (150 words) RECEPTIVENESS TO OPPOSING VIEWS 3 Why won’t you listen to me? Measuring receptiveness to opposing views However unwillingly a person who has a strong opinion may admit the possibility that his opinion may be false, he ought to be moved by the consideration that, however true it may be, if it is not fully, frequently, and fearlessly discussed, it will be held as a dead dogma, not a living truth. ~ John Stuart Mill Despite Mill’s eloquence, balanced, thoughtful, and “fearless” discussion of opposing views is rare, especially when parties find their own views to be self-evidently correct. Indeed, the research literatures in social psychology, judgment and decision making, behavioral economics and marketing document a litany of cognitive biases that prevent individuals from exposing themselves to, thoughtfully considering, and fairly evaluating the opposing views of others (Baron, 1995; Eagly, 1999; Frey, 1986; Hart et al., 2009; Lord, Ross & Lepper, 1979; Nickerson, 1998; Perkins, 1985; Ross & Ward, 1995, 1996). Yet, many social endeavors, ranging from democratic governance, to effective management, to congenial personal relationships require individuals to engage with contrasting or even seemingly offensive ideas. Reluctance or inability to consider opposing views with the same level of tolerance and effort as we afford to views that echo our own perpetuates attitude conflict (Judd, 1978), and can exacerbate social group boundaries as we belittle or disparage those whose views differ from our own (Fernbach, Rogers, Fox & Sloman, 2013; Krosnick, 1988; Lord et al., 1979; Pronin, Gilovich, & Ross, 2004). Given the scope of interdependent situations in which attitude conflict arises and threatens to divide us, understanding parties’ willingness to psychologically engage with opposing views is vital to social functioning. Such understanding, in turn, requires being able to measure this willingness, a construct we will refer to as “receptiveness to opposing views.” In the present research, we construct and validate such a measure, and demonstrate that our scale predicts behavior in both the lab and the field. We hope that our measure will allow future RECEPTIVENESS TO OPPOSING VIEWS 4 researchers to empirically test precursors or moderators of receptiveness, and provide insights into likely barriers. We define receptiveness as a willingness to access, consider, and evaluate opposing views in an impartial manner. We synthesize and build on prior work demonstrating people’s disinclination to seek, attend to, and process antagonistic perspectives to provide a deeper theoretical structure connecting the cognitive biases that impact these processes. Conceptually, receptiveness can be thought of as a higher order construct, wherein the aforementioned biases serve as behavioral manifestations of low receptiveness. We theorize that the more receptive someone is, the more he or she will evaluate both supportive and opposing statements and evidence in an equitable and impartial manner. However, attitude change is not required as evidence of genuine receptiveness to opposing views. Nor do we intend to prescribe that receptiveness to opposing views is always desirable. There may be instances when simply granting an audience to offensive views (say, justifying child pornography) gives these perspectives an undeserved legitimacy. Yet, we believe these instances are rare relative to situations where receptiveness can be socially constructive, particularly in highly polarized political and social environments. In the remainder of the paper we explain the construct of receptiveness to opposing views and detail how it relates to, unifies, and extends prior work. We then report the results of five studies. Study 1 develops and validates an 18-item measure of individuals’ receptiveness to opposing views, including its psychometric properties and discriminant validity from other conceptually-related scales. Studies 2-4 demonstrate the predictive validity of the scale for participants reacting to public policy initiatives (such as healthcare and immigration policies) presented to them in a controlled laboratory environment. Study 5 takes advantage of a naturallyoccurring political event (the Presidential election and its aftermath) to predict how people with opposing views will react to the President-elect’s inauguration speech. RECEPTIVENESS TO OPPOSING VIEWS 5 What is Receptiveness? Most of us can readily recall a specific instance when a discussion partner with an opposing viewpoint listened to our arguments thoughtfully, seemingly considering the proffered information, and asked follow-up questions suggesting genuine curiosity and a desire to understand. Such experiences are memorable in part because they are rare. Extensive research demonstrates that when the issue at hand is a deeply held, identity-relevant attitude—as may be the case in many social, political, or international conflicts—disputants rarely display a willingness to even-handedly consider arguments for both sides of the issue. Instead, they selectively seek out (Frey, 1986; Hart et al., 2009), attend to (Nickerson, 1998) and preferentially process (Lord et al., 1979) information that supports their prior opinions. Even when exposed to opposing arguments, partisans often attribute disagreement to ignorance, bias, or malevolence on the part of the disagreeing other (Ross & Ward, 1995, 1996) making it easy to dismiss any new considerations. In the present research, we propose the presence of an underlying latent construct, receptiveness to opposing views, that influences individuals’ willingness to expose themselves to, thoughtfully consider, and fairly evaluate information that contradicts their strongly-held beliefs. We consider the biases that have been documented by prior scholars at different stages of information processing as symptomatic of this unifying construct. Whereas prior research has treated such biases as separate phenomena, we theorize some co-occurrence as attributable to an individual’s underlying level of receptiveness. Specifically, we believe that biases at three major stages of information processing: (1) information seeking, (2) information attention, and (3) information evaluation, covary as a function of an individual’s level of receptiveness. Conceptually connecting these robust research streams enables a more complete and unifying explanation of the behavioral findings. First and foremost, we theorize that more receptive individuals are more willing to physically expose themselves to the opposing views of others. In everyday life, this might mean RECEPTIVENESS TO OPPOSING VIEWS 6 not changing the television channel when a political candidate you oppose begins to speak, or remaining in the room when your “ill-informed” uncle turns dinnertime discussion toward his views on immigration. In the laboratory, such willingness to expose oneself to opposing views should be apparent using standard measures of selective exposure (Frey, 1986) or congeniality bias (Hart et al., 2009). We predict that more receptive individuals will show more equal interest in reading, listening to, or viewing arguments for both their own and opposing viewpoints than their less receptive counterparts. However, many individuals often skillfully “tune out” arguments for the other side even while being physically exposed to them. Thus, we hypothesize that in addition to being more willing to expose themselves to opposing views, highly receptive people are also willing to process information more thoroughly and thoughtfully, avoiding the temptation to dismiss information incongruent with their position. Research on recall of supporting versus opposing viewpoints shows that people on average are better at recalling supporting versus opposing evidence (Eagly, 1999). Similarly, research on the “myside bias” shows that people are better at generating arguments consistent with their own views, even when explicitly instructed to list arguments for both sides of a controversial topic (Baron, 1995; Perkins, 1985; Stanovich, West, & Toplak, 2013). We propose that more receptive individuals should demonstrate a more equitable processing of both attitude-confirming and attitude-disconfirming information. Finally, research on the phenomenon of naïve realism (Ross & Ward, 1995, 1996) shows that people often attribute disagreement on important issues to misinformation, stupidity, bias, or malevolence on the part others. Evidence is evaluated more favorably and has greater impact on attitudes if it happens to support one’s own prior viewpoint (Lord, Lepper, & Preston, 1984; Lord et al., 1979). Thus, even after having been exposed to and having considered opposing views, individuals still find ways to banish the undesirable evidence from their minds on the grounds that it is inferior or irrelevant. We propose that more receptive individuals will tend to evaluate RECEPTIVENESS TO OPPOSING VIEWS 7 