Corporations worldwide are finding that understanding and managing rapidly growing, enterprisewide data is critical for making timely decisions and responding to changing business conditions. To manage and use business information competitively, many companies are establishing decision support systems built around a data warehouse of subject-oriented, integrated, historical information. In order to understand why the data warehouse must replace old legacy applications for effective information processing, it is necessary to understand the root causes of the difficulty in getting information in the first place. The first difficulty in getting information from the base of old applications is that those old applications were shaped around business requirements that were relevant as much as twenty-five years ago. These applications that were shaped yesterday do not reflect today’s business. The second reason why older applications are so hard to use as a basis for information is that those applications were shaped around the clerical needs of the corporation. A clerically focused application of necessity does not have the historical foundation required to support a long-term view. Another reason why the clerical perspective of applications does not support management’s need for information is that the clerical community focuses on detailed data. While detailed data is tine for the day-to-day clerical needs of the organization, management needs to see summary data in order to identify trends, challenges and opportunities. Yet another reason why the clerical perspective of applications does not suffice for management’s need for information is that the clerically-oriented applications were built an application at a time, and there was little or no integration from one application to the next. The result is that the old legacy applications cannot easily or reliably be combined to produce a unified perspective of data. For these basic reasons, the older foundation of applications will not suffice as a basis for the important informational processing that organizations need to do in order to become efficient, competitive corporations. Nothing short of an entire change in architecture and a fundamental restructuring of the applications foundation will suffice. Fortunately there is an alternative architecture, which consists of a separation of processing into two broad categories-operational processing and decision-support processing. At the heart of decision-support (DSS) processing is the structure known as the data warehouse. The data warehouse contains data which has been gathered and integrated from the legacy systems environment. There are different levels of data within the data warehouse. Some data is very detailed. Other data is summarized. Other older detailed data is placed in secondary storage. In addition there is a component of the data warehouse known as “meta data.” Meta data, or information about data, is a directory as to what the contents of the data warehouse are and where the contents came from.