SIGCSE has a rich heritage, based on talented and energetic members who are deeply committed to computing education. Building on this distinguished history, SIGCSE announces a new initiative: the creation of Committees to support the computing-education community. These Committees will draw upon the active involvement o f interested SIGCSE members. In dialog with its membership, SIGCSE will identify important current topics o f interest to the computingeducation community. For each topic, through its elected officers, SIGCSE will create a separate Committee. While these Committees will be largely self-directed, some guidelines will provide structure and guidance: • Membership on any Committee will he open to any SIGCSE member, although • The SIGCSE Board will appoint 2-4 facilitators for each Committee to help in discussions and in the preparation of draft materials. • Each Committee will have its own list serve for communication. • Each Committee will study its topic with the intent o f producing a report. • While formal Committee work would proceed electronically, Committee members might meet informally at conferences (e.g., at Birds-of-aFeather sessions), for those members who can attend • Committees are invited to present draft reports at conferences or to post their drafts on the Web in order to received feedback. • Final reports may be presented at conferences and/or published in the SIGCSE Bulletin. • After issuing a report, a Committee normally would dissolve, although a new Committee might be formed (possibly with new facilitators) to address related matters. Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). SIGCSE'02, February 27March 3, 2002, Covington, Kentucky, USA. ACM 1-58113-473-8/02/0002. 368 Altogether the SIGCSE Board views these Committees as following a process that is a cross between the approaches used by the ITiCSE Working Groups and the ACM/IEEECS Task Force for Computing Curriculum 2001. Each of these bodies focuses on a specific topic, with the goal of producing a final report. Working groups may do some preliminary work before an ITiCSE conference, but a great deal of the main work occurs at the conference -with a short poster session for feedback from conference attendees. The ACM/IEEE-CS Task Force has worked for a longer period -issuing draft documents, presenting interim reports at conferences, appointing numerous subgroups, and meeting extensively to reach a final report. Some Sample Committee Subjects • SIGCSE Committee on an Essential Book List for Undergraduate Libraries • SIGCSE Committee on the High-School/College Interface • SIGCSE Committee on the Two-Year College/University Interface • SIGCSE Committee on Distance Learning Issues Affecting Computing Faculty • SIGCSE Committee on Issues Impacting Underrepresented Groups in Computing • SIGCSE Committee on the Role of Mathematics in Computing • SIGCSE Committee on Faculty Vitality • SIGCSE Committee on the Use of Collaborative Learning in Computing Education • SIGCSE Committee on Student Assessment