1 Introduction While most of the data published on the Web is either semi-structured (e.g., HTML documents) or unstructured (e.g., text files, images), the Web also offers " hooks " to ac.cess non-Web centric structured data (e.g., relational databases). CGI scripts are usually used to access back-end databases. The Web has so far been incongruous with databases. The reason that the Web is database unfriendly is that it has been developed for open data sources. Databases are closed in nature in that communication with them is through a rigid protocol (DBMS). One needs to know the schema of a database to access or modify its state. This is fundamentally different from the openness and freeform type of Web data. 1Veb protocols and search engines have been developed for this kind of requirements and environments. Therefore, it is important to note that information retrieval and search techniques could not be applied because of the different nature of, and the fundamental assumptions about the data. However, we could not discount the fact that the Web has made it now possible to have one single interface to potentially access all Internet accessible databases. The challenge now is to make the Web database friendly. This essentially means that we need to build an adequate infrastructure on top of the Web that will provide for a World Wide Database (WWD). In order to address problems of scalability and language support for Web accessible databases, the WebFINDIT prototype has been developed [3, 11. WebFINDIT is a system for describing, locating and accessing data in Internet-accessible databases. We present an architecture and supporting tools that enable users to bu:ild complex and emerging Web applications in a simple and flexible way. The main idea is to incorporate simple access to Web-accessible databases as well as support for scalability and extensibility into a flexible interoperable architecture for large information spaces. Most existing techniques focused extensively on either data sharing among small numbler of heterogeneous databases or on information discovery and brokering in the context of unstructured or semi-structured Web-resident data [l]. In our research, we consider issues to achieve the database equivalent of the WWW. We call it the World Wide Database (WWD). The WWD will be fundamentally different from the WWW in that databases are relatively closed as compared to traditional Web-resident data. Therefore, we need to devise an infrastructure that will recognize the specificities of accessing databases …