Web proxy caches are deployed almost everywhere, at organis ation boundaries as well as at ISPs. Proxy caches improve late ncy when retrieving Web documents while reducing the overall ne twork traffic on the Internet. Proxy cache administrators spend so me effort configuring the caching software and determining their su table placements in order to obtain the best achievable quality of service, with respect to user demands. However, despite this effort, the efficiency of caches may decline over time. Indeed, the efficien cy of a given caching infrastructure depends heavily on the act ual use of the caches: number of users, type of requested documents, load of machines running caches. Since these characteristics ar e subject to change, it is unlikely that any particular configuration a nd deployment will remain effective during the whole cache life c ycle. Therefore, to maximise the benefits offered by Web proxy cach es, administrators should reconfigure the existing infrastruc ture as the traffic characteristics evolve; this implies frequent measurements of cacheefficiency. This raises two distinct issues. First, how often should one perform measurements? With respect to the frequency of evaluat ions, it is important to be able to react to sudden modifications (fla sh crowds, network or servers failures), as well as slower ones with strong trends (growing user community, increasing use of mu ltimedia documents). The appropriate frequency depends mainl y on the impact of the cache’s efficiency on the actual quality of s ervice. Hence the best choice of frequency is particular to each syst em. Each administrator should be given a way to adapt the measure ment frequency of his caches, taking into account the object ives in terms of overall service improvement and the effect of the de gradation of performance. Second, how to cope with the inherent subjectivity of the notion of efficiency? The suitable efficienc y metric depends on the goals defined by the cache administrators; the am level of performance may lead to different experiences by di fferent