Relational database systems have supported business applications for over a decade, providing capabilities such as optimization, concurrency, recovery and data independence. Customem now seek to integrate more areas of their business into a datsbase framework. New applications need data management systems that handle a variety of data types, such as images, drawings, spatial information, time series and documents. These data types must be integrated with traditional data and with each other in a system that provides the same capabilities as relational systems. Relational systems were initially limited to simple data types: numbers, character strings, dates and money. Although relational database vendom have added some new data types, they lack the extensible architecture needed for an integrated solution. Often these extensions appear as wrappem with restricted capabilities and limited integration with other data typea. The Montage database system supports general extensibility of integrated data types. User definable capabilities include base and composite types, C and SQL functions, and functional indices. These features are dynamic they are added to the system using SQL3 data definition language. New types of access methods and storage managers are also easily added to the system, The optimizer can use new statistics and formulas to determine when to choose a new access method and the cost of executing a user defined function. In this architecture the database management system can be thought of as a “razor” into which technology specific “DataBlades” are inserted. DataBlades are packages of data types, functions (or methods) defined on those types, and access methods customized for those types and functions. DataBlades range in specificity and can address technical areas (images), industry sectors (medical) or specific companies (Medical Widgets Corporation). Data Blades may be written by Montage, third parties, or end usem. Montage offers DataBlades for textual document, spatial, image and statistical applications. DataBlades for OCR, time series and isochronous (real-time) data are under development. The latter Data Blade will include a special storage manager to optimize the data delivery. Other vendors can easily add DataBlades that exploit their own expertise. For example, Montage offers a textual document blade that integrates a third party format convemion suite with a document data type and a full text indexing access method. Queries involving full text search may be combined in relational queries with other data types: