Too often in interactive pictures, movies or VR scenes where no explicit buttons exist, de user is left to find hot spots (portals, gates, links) almost at random In any particular scene, although semantic information is present, a user may be overwhelmed by the number of possible and perfectly logical locations in which hot spots could be embedded. In this paper, we propose a new support tool based on the Highly Attractive Region Extraction Method and aimed at helping the designer identify and enhance hot spots image regions so that they become more attractive (i.e. get the user’s attention). This computer tool performs an evaluation on images based on their physical features (Hue, Saturation, Lightness, Sii and Contrast) and graphicahy shows which regions are more likely to attract a user’s gaze. Based on these results, the designer can den choose to fnrthermore highligbt a particular part of a picture or, alternatively, tone down regions that could cause confusion. Keyworcis User Interface, hot spots, Visual Communications, Interactive Movie, Image processing, navigation, Support Tool, Design ENTRODUCTGON While most interfaces rely on icons, words, menus or buttons, a growing numbers of games, interactive movies and virtual worlds rely solely on the graphical representation of a specific environment to permit user interaction. These environments can be reality or fantasy-based, depict familiar or unfamiliar objects or spaces. They can be still or in motion. They can be completely immersive as in the case of virtual Reality experienced through a head-mounted display or simply window-based as in de case of AppleT”’ Quicktime VR viewed on the screen of a computer. These navigable worlds or pictures lack de familiar labels found in other types of interfaces. The lack of words or icons contributes to de depiction of a more convincing scene, but it tends to decrease the effectiveness of the manner in which the user navigates a particular content Now that designers can afford to create rich environments composed of many objects or use photorealistic images to creIkrmission to make digitalkrd copies of alI or pat of tbii materizd for pmonal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that the copies are not made or diiiuted for profit or wmmercial admtage, the copyright notice. the title of Ihe publication and its date appar, and no&e is giventbat copyrigbl is by permission of the AChf. Inc To copy oUxnvise., to republish, to post on servers or to rediibute to lists, requires specific permission .andTor fee. CHI 98 Los Attgeles CA USA CQpyrigbt 1998 0-s9791-975-019s/4S.00 ate scenes, it has become more difftcult for the user to find where hot spots may have been placed. The semantic information contained in a scene obviously helps the user make a decision. The representation of a door will most likely trigger the belief that there will be a hot spot at this location, although sometimes one is not available. On the other hand a user may overlook an object which the developer used as a hot spot. As an example of this, consider a navigable photo of an office: the computer screen intended to be a hot spot to another scene may be overlooked for the more obvious door on the opposite wall. The user can easily be overwhelmed by the high number of possibilities or simply fail to find all but the most obvious hot spots. To alleviate this problem, in applications where a cursor is present, routines have been implemented to modify various aspects of the cursor’s behavior ifit is moved over an area of the picture defined as a hot spot. The user is often compelled to stop moving and perform a “mine sweeping” motion over the whole picture to identify hot spots. Although this method is helpful in some ways, it does not address the real problem, which is one of graphic design and visual communications. Designers, computer artists, photographers and cameramen not only must exercise good judgement in the composition of their pictures but also need a tool to analyze the physical features of their images as they are produced. These tools must show in a simple and direct manner where a user is likely to look within the frame. The designer must realize that an insignificant object, if of a certain hue and size, might detract attention from more important objects. Some previous research on the subject of extraction of attractive regions in a picture was done by Milanese et. al [l]. They assumed that the discontinuity found inside of a picture attracts the viewer’s attention. To extract those attractive regions, they first create feature maps for several physical features of the picture, then extract the discontinuous regions of each feature map. Finally the regions are integrated into a single map by using a relaxation process. Milanese et. al used a bank of difference-of-oriented-gaussians (DOORG) filters whose size are fixed to extract discontinuous regions. However, since the size of attractive regions are different within and among different pictures, it is difficult to properly extract attractive regions with filters limited to a fixed size. Here, we propose a method that first segments the original picture into regions of various sizes. Then this method uses a discrimination function to select attractive regions from those regions. This tool automatically identifies regions with bighest level of attractiveness based on physical properties (Hue,