Fixed-priority preemptive scheduling of independent periodic 
tasks on a homogeneous multiprocessor is solved using 
one of two different methods based on how tasks are assigned 
to the processors at run-time. In the partitioned method, 
all instances of a task are executed on the same processor, 
where the processor used for each task is determined before 
run-time by a partitioning algorithm. In the non-partitioned 
method, a task is allowed to execute on any processor, even 
when resuming after having been preempted. Two fundamental 
properties have been shown for the addressed problem. First, the problem of deciding whether a task set is 
schedulable is NP-hard for both methods. Second, there are 
task sets which are schedulable with an optimal priority assignment 
with the non-partitioned method, but are unschedulable 
with an optimal partitioning algorithm and conversely. 
Among the two methods, the non-partitioned method has 
received considerably less attention, mainly because it is believed 
to suffer from several scheduling-related shortcomings. 
The most well-known of these is Dhall’s effect, a 
scheduling dilemma wherein some task sets may be unschedulable 
on multiple processors even though they have 
a low utilization. Another shortcoming is that existing 
necessary and sufficient schedulability tests all have exponential 
time complexity, and existing sufficient tests 
have polynomial complexity but are pessimistic. It has 
also been shown that the RM (rate-monotonic) priorityassignment 
scheme is not optimal, and no optimal 
priority-assignment schemes with polynomial time complexity 
have been found. 
In this paper, we present an in-depth analysis of the nonpartitioned 
method in terms of its scheduling-related properties. 
We (i) identify a set of anomalies for preemptive 
scheduling with migration, which are the first ever reported 
in the open research literature, (ii) identify several difficulties 
in conveying techniques from uniprocessor scheduling 
to the multiprocessor case, and (iii) conjecture that there may 
exist priority-assignment schemes that can contribute to circumventing 
Dhall’s effect, something that has believed to be 
inherently impossible with the non-partitioned method.