1 Introduction This paper gives several new demonstrations of the usefulness of random sampling techniques in computational geometry. One new algorithm creates a search structure for arrangements of hyperplanes by sampling the hyperplanes and using information from the resulting arrangement to divide and conquer. This algorithm requires randomized O(s d+`) preprocess-ing time to build a search structure for an arrangement of s hyperplanes in d dimensions. The structure has a query time that is worst-case O(logs). (The bound holds for any fixed ~ > 0, with the constant factors dependent on d and ~.) Using point-plane du-ality, the algorithm may be used for answering halfs-pace range queries. Another algorithm finds random samples of simplices to determine the separation distance of two polytopes. The algorithm uses random-ized O(n[ d/2j) time, where n is the total number of vertices of the two polytopes. This matches previous results [DK851 for the case d : 3 and extends them. Another algorithm samples points in the plane to determine their order k Voronoi diagram, and requires randomized O(sk)o(s ~) time for s points. This sharpens the bound O(sk 2 logs) for Lee's algorithm [Lee821, and O(s 2 logs + s(s-k) log2 s) for Chazelle and Edelsbrunner's algorithm ICE851. Finally, random sampling is used to show that any set of s points in E 3 has O(sk 2 log 9 s/(log log s) 6) distinct j-sets with j < k. (For S C E d, a set S' C S with IS'} =j is a j-set of S if there is a halfspace h + with S' = S fqh+.) This sharpens with respect to k the previous bound O(sk 5) [CP851. The proof of the bound given here is an instance of a "probabilistic method" IES741. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. 1.1 The problems and results The use of random sampling to divide and conquer is quite old: the partitioning step of quicksort may be viewed as an example. This paper describes several new applications of this technique. Searching arrangements. Given a set …