There has been a good ded of poficy debate about priWy as it relates to computers and communications. To date th~ has had an ahnost unique focus on privacy of data. There has been tremendous debate, and resemch on the privacy of medicd data about individu~ as well as concern about fiancid and behaviorrd data. There has *O been debate and rwearch about coddentidty of communicated data. (Can your boss read your email? Can pedophilcotnmunicate over encrypted Yiw or send encrypted m=sages? Etc.) Trade secrets and national security aside, the main concern about stored data has not so much been with keeping the data itself private as preventing its msociation with the individuals to whom it is relevant. This is even true of confidential communications, although perhaps to a lesser extent. Thus, the pohcy debate is more about the anonymity of data than its confidentitilty. Far less attention however h= been focussed on the annymity of communication itself, as opposed to the data that are communicanted or stored. There are a growing number of mechanisms designed to protect the anonymity of communicants from e~ other, from outsiders, and/or horn the system itself. The Anonyrnizer, Crowds, the Eternity Service, LPWA, Onion Routing, Pip~net, various classes of remailers, Rewebber, etc. are some of the mehanisrns that have been proposed, designed, and/or implemented to pr~ tect the privacy of the communicants in some form or other for some class of Internet communication or other. However, there has been Ettle focus to date on po~cy issuw surrounding such medanisms. A recent exception was the use of the Penet remailer to distribute information that the Church of Scientolo~ considered private. It w= debated whether or not Penet was r=ponsible for what W* sent using it and whether the administrator of Penet was required to reveal the source of the material. Penet’s source was ultimately revealed to be another remailer, and Penet was shut down, but it is unclear if any general policy directions emerged. And, for many of the newer mehanisrns those questions me mooti the mechanisms are designed so that no one system jurisdiction ever holds the answer of who is communicating, and the cent ent is largely hidden from system components. Like every area of tednicd innovation, it is possible to use th~e mechanisms for good or in. An anonymity service could be