What are the crucial issues and open problems in our field? I propose to answer this question indirectly by offering you a view of the terrain that we call information retrieval so as to point out where we are today and where we hope to be someday in the future. Implicit in such view is a picture of the monumental conceptual gap that now separates what we now know and what we would like to know. It is a gap in our theoretical understanding which could be called the "open problems and issues"; however as we shall see, it is by no means a well-formed formulation of any single problem or issue. The-central concern of our field is of course, the problem of how to get access to the best current recorded information on a given subject or problem. And as researchers in this field we are concerned with fundamental understanding ; namely how to explicate those basic concepts and how to construct those theories which can guide us in our pursuit of design principles for truly effective information access systems. Before considering the current state of our understanding of I.R. theories and systems, consider first the human being as an information retrieval system. The intelligent human with his marvelous memory and powerful cognitive system can read the running text of a document, understand what it says, what it means and what it is about. He can evaluate the credibility, truth and quality of the information. He can take what a given document says and relate it to other things he believes in order to synthesize a more current representation of what has been said. And of course he can remember and he can recall. Thus when interrogated by another person, the human information retrieval system can answer questions and he can tailor his answers to match the level of understanding of his interrogator. And he can Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. cite those writings that will be most useful to his interrogator. Of course, some humans do …