Our' goal is the development and application of various techniques for generating approximate responses to data base queries. An "approximate re-sponse" is a response other than a direct answer to the question. Approximate responses are frequently referred to by linguists as "indirect answers" or "replies" (e.g. in BS76). What is approximate is not so much the response as the relationship between the response and the initial query. Our approach is to regard an interaction between a user and a data base as a discourse, having the properties and constraints normally associated with human dialog. (Conversational Postulates of Grice (G67) are examples of such constraints.) Many of the conventions of human dialog can be implemented through approximate responses which, for instance, 1) aid a user in formulating a suitable alternative query when the precise response to the initial query would be uninteresting or useless; 2) inform a user about the structure or content of the data base when the user is unfamiliar with its complexities ; and 3) summarize at an appropriate level, eliminating unnecessary detail. Natural language (NL) query systems are of benefit to users who are only partially familiar with the structure and/or content of the underlying data base. Such "naive" users are typically hampered by their lack of knowledge in formulating a query which will retrieve the. desired information. We believe that NL can do more than simply provide the user with a convenient, higher-level replacement for a formalized query syntax. NL questions frequently embed information about the user's understanding of the structure of the data. This information can be exploited to inform and guide the user in the use of the data base. Of particular interest to us is the key role that shared knowledge between conversants plays in the effectiveness of human dialog. As observed in (CH75), dialog tends to proceed with statements which offer a specific piece of 'new' information to the conversation which is differentiated from information considered as 'given' or already known We wish to thank Peter Buneman, Rob Gerritsen, and Ivan Sag for many fruitful discussions. Knowledge to the other party. Breaches of this 'Given-New Contract' can point to the need for additional background information to be supplied in order for communication to be effective. We believe that this observation can be effectively utilized within the context of queries to a data base system. Our approach here is to pay special attention …