This paper describes a real-time decision-making model that combines the expressiveness and flexibility of knowledge-based systems with the real-time advantages of anytime algorithms. Anytime algorithms offer a simple means by which an intelligent system can trade off computation time for quality of results. Previous attempts to develop knowledge-based anytime algorithms failed to produce consistent, predictable improvement of quality over time. Without performance profiles, that describe the output quality as a function of time, it is hard to exploit the flexibility of anytime algorithms. The model of progressive reasoning that is presented here is based on a hierarchy of reasoning units that allow for gradual improvement of decision quality in a predictable manner. The result is an important step towards the application of knowledge-based systems in time-critical domains. 1 Introduction This paper describes a real-time decision-making model that combines the expressiveness and flexibility of knowledge-based systems with the real-time advantages of anytime algorithms. The application of knowledge-based systems to real-time domains such as process control , automated navigation systems, medical monitoring , and robotics is an important problem in artificial intelligence. A major difficulty in solving this problem arises since real-time domains require continuous operation and predictable performance while knowledge-based systems rely on time-consuming algorithms with highly variable performance. Performance variability has limited the application of knowledge-based systems to real-time domains. To avoid these problems, the AI community has constructed several general paradigms such as anytime algorithms [Dean and Boddy, 1988; Horvitz, 1987], design-to-time [Garvey and Lesser, 1993] and various types of progressive reasoning techniques [Winston, 1984; Mouad-dib et a/., 1992]. Another approach has been to construct special architectures for particular problem domains such as the Guardian system for monitoring the patient's condition in an intensive care unit [Hayes-Roth et a/., 1991]. Among the general paradigms, anytime algorithms in particular are increasingly used in AI applications since they are easy to construct and monitor and since they can be efficiently combined to produce larger real-time systems [Zilberstein, 1993]. But successful control of anytime algorithms require the use of performance profiles that describe the dependency of output quality on computation time. Knowledge-based anytime algorithms that have been proposed in the past do not exhibit high correlation between computation time and output quality. Therefore, their performance profiles can not be constructed and their use as anytime algorithms is very limited. In this paper, we describe a model of knowledge-based progressive reasoning that meets …