In this paper we present a terminological language which includes defaults, and a definition of default subsumption based on the notion of skeptical in­ heritance in default reasoning. Except for the in­ clusion of defaults the language is limited when compared to most terminological logics. However defaults are a necessary construct in many applica­ tions and we suggest that the language presented here is a useful tradeoff between different types of expressivity We present an algorithm for classify­ ing new concepts into the default hierarchy repre­ senting the taxonomy, and in addition an algorithm for what we call default classification, suitable for interactive reasoning about individuals. We de­ scribe a diagnosis application which has been im­ plemented using this language and reasoning mech­ anisms. We present an evaluation of the diagnosis application on the basis of comparison with 63 pa­ tient protocols. We conclude that the language pre­ sented is in fact adequate for the application pre­ sented here and hypothesize that it i .s interesting for a significant group of applications. 1 Introduction Taxononiic representations and reasoning have been popular in A.l. for a long time, largely because they provide an efficient way of representing knowledge and organising it for reasoning purposes. The two main kinds of taxononiic reasoning to be found in the litera­ ture are classification (e.g. [Brachinan ei al., 1991]) and default inheritance reasoning (e.g. [Horty et a/., 1987; Fahhnan, 1979]). Classification in systems with strict inheritance hierarchies has been used in a number of ap­ plications. However the kind of classification systems used here have also been criticised for not having the • necessary expressivity of defaults [Doyle and Patil, 1991]. Default reasoning on the other hand has been used very little in real applications since the early work with NETL [Fahlman, 1979]. Recently there has been increased interest in incorpo­ rating defaults and principled default reasoning reason­ ing into classification systems. Some problems have been identified [Padgham and Nebel, 1993] and some theories for integrating default reasoning in terminological logics 1 have been developed [ In this work we define a language which is relatively sim­ ple compared to most terminologic logics (e.g. [Patel-Schneider et al., 1990]), but which also contains impor­ tant constructs not (usually) found in other languages of this type-namely defaults and features with predicate values. (The latter is however not the concern of this paper). In the search for computationally …