1 I n t r o d u c t i o n The annotation scheme (AC97) developed by the Discourse Research Initiative's Backwardand Forward-Looking Group (henceforth referred to as the BF scheme) provides a set of tags that can be applied to individual utterances in a dialogue, describing the utterance's illocutionary force. The BF scheme provides a standard top-level tag set that allows researchers to reuse corpora that have been annotated for other projects, and also allows tags to be refined by individual projects to provide detail on particular phenomena being studied. There are a number of dialogue features that are of interest to researchers, and for which tagging schemes have been developed. One feature that we are concerned with is grounding, the mechanism by which dialogue participants augment their mutual beliefs. In his dissertation work (Tra94), Traum establishes a set of tags to describe grounding behavior, and then uses this taxonomy of grounding acts to describe a computational model of how dialogue participants achieve a state of mutual understanding. Traum's model describes how grounding acts can be combined to form discourse units, segments of a dialogue that correspond to individual contributions to the common ground. Clark and Schaefer define a Grounding Tags from BF Tags T e r e s a Z o l l o a n d M a r k C o r e Depar tmen t of Compute r Science University of Rochester Rochester, New York 14627-0226 zollo@cs.rochester.edu mcore@cs.rochester.edu contribution as the presentation of a proposition by one dialogue participant, as well as all subsequent related utterances until there is adequate evidence that the initial utterance was understood or abandoned (CS89). Discourse units are the level of granularity at which other dialogue tags, such as the problem-solving acts described in (SA97), are app!ied. Annotating dialogues can be a time-consuming and error-prone undertaking. To make the annotation process easier and more reliable, care should be taken to avoid manually tagging information that can be derived from other tags or that can be automatically extracted. This paper explores how we can automatically annotate dialogues with grounding tags, given a corpus that has been annotated with the BF tags. Once grounding has been marked, we can automatically segment the dialogue into discourse units, using Traum's model. In order to tag with BF tags or grounding tags, a dialog must be segmented into utterances, a problem that is discussed briefly in section 2. Section 3 gives an overview of the BF tags and grounding tags, section 4 discusses the mapping from BF tags to grounding tags, and section 5 presents a comparison of the automatic mapping to a human annotator. 2 S e g m e n t i n g d i a l o g u e s i n t o u t t e r a n c e s . . Dialogues need to be segmented into utterances before annotation with the BF tags. Unfortunately, there is no widely accepted criteria for identifying utterances. Traum's approach to utterance segmentation is to segment utterances based on the presence of prosodic evidence such as pauses and boundary tones, and on changes of speaker. The benefit of this approach is that it can be done automatically given prosodic annotation. However,