Modern enterprise, web, and multimedia applications are generating unstructured content at unforeseen volumes in the form of documents, texts, and media files. Such content is generally associated with relational data such as user names, location tags, and timestamps. Storage of unstructured content in a relational database would guarantee the same robustness, transactional consistency, data integrity, data recoverability and other data management features consolidated across files and relational contents. Although database systems are preferred for relational data management, poor performance of unstructured data storage, limited data transformation functionalities, and lack of interfaces based on filesystem standards may keep more than eighty five percent of non-relational unstructured content out of databases in the coming decades.
 We introduce Oracle Database Filesystem (DBFS) as a consolidated solution that unifies state-of-the-art network filesystem features with relational database management ones. DBFS is a novel shared-storage network filesystem developed in the RDBMS kernel that allows content management applications to transparently store and organize files using standard filesystem interfaces, in the same database that stores associated relational content. The server component of DBFS is based on Oracle SecureFiles, a novel unstructured data storage engine within the RDBMS that provides filesystem like or better storage performance for files within the database while fully leveraging relational data management features such as transaction atomicity, isolation, read consistency, temporality, and information lifecycle management. 
 We present a preliminary performance evaluation of DBFS that demonstrates more than 10TB/hr throughput of filesystem read and write operations consistently over a period of 12 hours on an Oracle Exadata Database cluster of four server nodes. In terms of file storage, such extreme performance is equivalent to ingestion of more than 2500 million 100KB document files a single day. The set of initial results look very promising for DBFS towards becoming the universal storage solution for both relational and unstructured content.