of Complex Objects Using a Four-Valued Logic Thomas Rolleke, Norbert Fuhr [roelleke,fuhr] @ls6.informatik. uni-dortmund.de University of Dortmund, Germany The aggregated structure of documents plays a key role in full-text, multimedia, and network Information Retrieval (IR). Considering aggregation provides new querying facilities and improves retrieval effectiveness. We present a knowledge representation for IR purposes which pays special attention to this aggregated structure of objects. In addition, further features of objects can be described. Thus, the structure of full-text documents, the heterogeneity and the spatial and temporal relationships of objects typical for multimedia IR, and meta information for network IR are representable within one integrated framework. The model we propose allows for querying on the content of documents (objects) as well as on other features. The query result may contain objects having different types. Instead of retrieving only whole documents, the retrieval process determines the least aggregated entities that imply the query. 1 Motivation and Background New IR applications like full-text, multimedia, and network IR require a more sophisticated knowledge representation than the pure set of terms used in classical IR. What should the properties of a more sophisticated data model be? We need an integrated framework which allows a unified view of text documents, multimedia documents, and databases by considering all of them as retrievable objects which have some aggregated structure and some local knowledge about other objects. Classical IR only considers documents as atomic units, i. e. some kind of a black box. This black box thinking is very useful regarding the representation of the content, because this content representation should be abstract, i. e. Permission to make digital/hard copy of all part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage, the copyright notice, the title of the publication aad its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of ACM, Inc. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or fee. SIGIR96, Zurich, Switzerland@ 1996 ACM 0-89791-7928/96/08.$3.50 independent of the actual media. The model we present provides a unified content view plus the possibility to express other (factual) knowledge, i. e. features of objects. In addition, we also represent and exploit the aggregated structure of the documents. Thus, we get new query facilities: Querying for documents and facts can be combined. And, instead of retrieving only a reference to the whole document, the least aggregated entity that implies the query is identified. Due to the finer granularity of the retrieval result connected with the powerful querying language, we reduce the costs of obtaining the requested information and information retrieval becomes more effective. Modelling the structure: In our approach each object can have an aggregated structure. Full-text documents may be structured in chapters, sections, and paragraphs. Multimedia documents comprise different objects with varying media types. In network IR several databases form a knowledge base and each database knows the local documents and possib!y again other knowlege bases. [Brown 89] pointed out that “maintaining the underlying logical structure of a document can have many advantages for document processing”, since the ideas of the author are reflected by the structure and the system can provide intelligent help for navigating. Standards like ODA and SGML are widely used and so IR can take advantage of the structured information available. [Fuhr 95a] motivates the differentiation between the content structure and the logical structure for making IR more effective. [Macleod 90], [Colby et al. 94], and [Christophides et al. 94] propose retrieval models which take into account the structure of documents. The latter presents the interesting new facility of querying for paths leading to the relevant part of a document. Modelling features: Besides modelling the structure, we need a means for representing knowledge about objects. Since we want to deal with objects of different types (e. g. documents, databases), we have to model propositions about classification for grouping the objects. In addition, we need a means to model relationships between objects (e. g. authorship of documents). [Pfeifer et al. 95] demonstrates how classical content