1 Introduction Current object oriented programming languages (OOPLs) rely on mono-method dispatching. Recent research has identified multi-methods as a new, powerful feature to be added to OOPLs, and several experimental OOPLs now have multi-methods. Their ultimate success and impact in practice depends, among other things, on whether multi-method dispatching can be supported efficiently. We show that the multi-method dispatching problem can be transformed to a geometric problem on multi-dimensional integer grids, for which we then develop a data structure that uses near-linear space and has log-logarithmic query time. This gives a solution whose performance almost matches that of the best known algorithm for mono-method dispatching. In this paper we study problems from two different areas: the multi-method dispatching problem for object-oriented (00) languages and two string matching problems. It turns out that these problems are surprisingly similar: we prove that they can all be reduced to the same problem on multi-dimensional integer grids-see below for a description of this geometric problem. We present an efficient data structure for this problem, which allows various trade-offs between space and query time. This leads to significantly improved solutions to the multi-method dispatching problem and the string matching problems. In the rest of this introduction, as well as in the remainder of the paper, we lirst focus on the multi-method dispatching problem and then turn our attention to the string matching problems. Our geometric data structure has other applications as well, namely in two string matching problems: matching multiple rectangular patterns against a rectangular query text, and approximate dictionary matching with edit distance at most one. Our results for the former, long-standing open problem are substantially improved, near-linear time bounds. For the latter problem, which has applications in checking password security and the design of filtering tools, we obtain a near-linear solution as well. The multi-method dispatching problem Object-oriented languages. The 00.paradigm is becoming the norm for software development; languages such as Java, C++, and Smalltalk that embody some of the basic tenets of the 00.paradigm are highly popular. Recent research has identified new, powerful features that can enhance the current 00.technology, and the focus now is on understanding the implication of adding these features-their power and their cost in terms of the additional complexity. One such feature is the concept of multi-methods found in the new generation 00-languages such as CommonLoops [BK+86], CLOS [BD+88], Poly-Glot [AQl], Kea [MHHSl], Cecil [ChSZ] and Dylan [Ap94]. …