In an open environment such as the Internet, the decision to collaborate with a stranger (e.g., by granting access to a resource) is often based on the characteristics (rather than the identity) of the requester, via digital credentials: Access is granted if Alice’s credentials satisfy Bob’s access policy. The literature contains many examples where protecting the credentials and the access control policies is useful, and there are numerous protocols that achieve this. In many of these schemes, the server does not learn whether the client obtained access (e.g., to a message, or a service via an eticket). A consequence of this property is that the client can use all of her credentials without fear of “probing” attacks by the server, because the server cannot glean information about which credentials the client has (when this property is lacking, the literature uses a framework where the very use of a credential is subject to a policy specific to that credential). The main result of this paper is a protocol for negotiating trust between Alice and Bob without revealing either credentials or policies, when each credential has its own access policy associated with it (e.g., “a top-secret clearance credential can only be used when the other party is a government employee and has a top-secret clearance”). Our protocol carries out this privacy-preserving trust negotiation between Alice and Bob, while enforcing each credential’s policy (thereby protecting sensitive credentials). Note that there can be a deep nesting of dependencies between credential policies, and that there can be (possibly overlapping) policy cycles of these dependencies. Our result is not achieved through the routine use of standard techniques to implement, in this framework, one of the known strategies for trust negotiations (such as the “eager strategy”). Rather, this paper uses novel techniques to implement a non-standard trust negotiation strategy specifically suited to this framework (and in fact unusable outside of this framework, as will become clear). Our work is therefore Portions of this work were supported by Grants IIS-0325345, IIS0219560, IIS-0312357, and IIS-0242421 from the National Science Foundation, Contract N00014-02-1-0364 from the Office of Naval Research, by sponsors of the Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security, and by Purdue Discovery Park’s e-enterprise Center. a substantial extension of the state-of-the-art in privacypreserving trust negotiations.