To consider about non-technical aspects of software development process, it seems to be important to focus onto the differences in the goals of various process agents. Hereafter, the terms “inside”, “outside”, and “beside” are used metaphorically to emphasize the dichotomy between the authority and direction of management and the freedom and creativity of the individual. There are several levels of concern in considering team efforts in the software process: organization, project, group, and individual. The higher levels are dominated by a view that is characterized as macroscopic, “outside”, mechanistic, and epic; the lower levels are dominated by a view that is characterized as microscopic, “inside”, humanistic, and lyric. The house of software development consists of two floors and a basement. The second floor is populated by process designers and process managers and represents an “outside” view of development. The first floor is populated by software developers and represents an “inside” view. The basement is houses the process support (ie, is the foundation) for both the developers and the managers and as such represents yet another “outside” view. There are three viewpoints to software development: the user’s viewpoint that of product-oriented project goals; the manager’s viewpoint is that of the process model and supporting environment; the developer’s viewpoint is process oriented and centered around individual goals. We should have some kind of appropriate mapping mechanism from user’s viewpoint to to developer’s viewpoint. Human beings as a process agents produce both good and bad results: They do either more or less than specified. A human process agent is likely to do less when he or she is forced to be “beside” him or herself; he or she is likely to do more when he or she is free to be “inside” him or herself. So, it is important to distinguish different kinds of goals and objectives in the team process. Given that there are general social goals at the organizational level, such as success of the project, what are the conditions necessary to achieve personal goals at the individual level at the same time? Furthermore, what is the superimposing mechanism for these personal goals? Two types of ideal software development processes can be delineated: Confucianistic and Taoistic, The former looks beautiful but very easy to be demoralized, The latter looks chaotic but powerful if implemented, The problem is that this process is difficult to implement. Current direction of software engineering seems to be going towards Confucianism(?). But still I myself have a tiny hope in searching for Taoistic way.