Welcome to Beijing and to ACM MobiCom 2009, the 15th Annual Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking. MobiCom has become the premier venue for top quality research in mobile computing and networking, and the entire organizing committee has attempted to assemble for you a top-notch technical program consisting of papers, posters, demos, keynote lectures and a panel on cutting-edge topics in wireless networking and mobile computing. We hope you have a stimulating, enjoyable, and fruitful experience at the conference! 
 
The centerpiece of the conference, the technical program, consists, as in past years, a thought-provoking mixture of systems and theory papers. These span the gamut of topics in wireless networking, touching upon mobile phones, mesh networks, body area networks, infrastructure-based wireless networks, and on-chip wireless communication! The technical program consists of 30 papers, selected from 282 submissions received from 30 countries worldwide, after a thorough two-stage review process in which we received a total of 956 reviews, or about 3.4 reviews on average per paper! At the program committee meeting in Los Angeles, we discussed 65 papers before converging on the final program. 
 
There were two features of the review process that deserve mention. First, we selected an associate technical program committee consisting of junior academic researchers, as well as senior researchers from industry and government labs. They brought valuable perspective to the second-stage of the review process. Second, a group of researchers in Asia organized a shadow technical program committee. The shadow PC process was designed to expose junior researchers in Asia to submissions to a top notch conference. Its process was completely decoupled from the main technical program, and did not influence the selection of the papers for the technical program. Paper authors were given the option of choosing to have their papers reviewed by the shadow PC, and about half the submitted papers elected to do so. 
 
If the technical program is a success, it will be entirely due to the efforts of a very energetic group of researchers who formed the main technical program committee (TPC)! Each TPC member reviewed nearly 25 papers, participated in constructive electronic discussions before the program committee meeting, and attended or called into the TPC meeting from different parts of the globe. The meeting itself was infused with vigorous debate and thoughtful discussion, and remained lively till the very end, an indication of the TPC's dedication to upholding MobiCom's reputation as the premier mobile computing and networking conference! Coordinating the logistics of a TPC meeting for a top-tier conference is a difficult endeavor, and we could not have done it without the help of Gertrude Lewis and Justin Collins.