THE NEED FOR A CURRICULUM IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The landscape of computing has changed dramatically for computing users, We routinely hear about the information superhighway, world-wide web and the Internet, multimedia, virtual reality, electronic mail and bulletin boards, groupware, desktop publishing, expert systems and knowledge engineering. Dramatically, these are not topics discussed exclusively by computer scientists and other kinds of computing specialists. These topics are being discussed by the general user community, a community ill-trained to use these technologies fully and effectively. Although the computer has come out of the computing center and is sitting on the desktop, the immense and growing power of these computers is being only partially utilized by users with limited time for learning about and understanding the rapidly changing information technologies available to them. The fastest growing demand in our society is for computer professionals who help people use information technologies to solve their computing problems. This is an unusual computing professional who combines strong technical skills (in networks, multimedia, databases, intelligent systems, and the integration, configuration and management of these) with the human element (identifying user needs, designing friendly user interfaces, establishing local information policies and procedures and integrating evolving standards). Traditional programs in computing have prepared students for jobs as researchers or developers rather than as information technologists. The growth of opportunities in information technology has created the need for programs emphasizing careers in this area. In this paper we propose requirements for a curriculum in Information Technology based on A CM Curriculum ’91. We first use a profile of an information technologist to extend Curriculum’91 to include new knowledge units. We next refine the knowledge units to include learning objectives that specify the level of mastery of each knowledge unit. Information Technology curricula then are formed as a collection of courses covering the set of learning objectives to the specified level of mastery.