Constraints can serve as a unifying force in artificial intelligence. Introduction The Artificial Intelligence community, and the AAAI conference in particular, has long been concerned with counteracting the tendency towards fragmentation, and refocusing on the seminal vision of a unified machine intelligence. The Senior Member Presentation Track itself is one welcome effort in that direction. The purpose of this paper is to delineate the roles that constraint modeling and reasoning can play in pursuing this integrative agenda. Tutorial I will provide a very brief introduction to constraint satisfaction using the popular Sudoku game for illustration. Constraints are sometimes viewed primarily in terms of search, but I would argue that their role in representation and reasoning is equally if not more important. The Sudoku puzzle has recently achieved wide popularity. The puzzle involves a 9 by 9 grid of cells, further divided into nine 3 by 3 blocks of 9 cells each. A given puzzle starts with some cells filled in with one of the digits 1 through 9. The object is to fill the remaining cells with digits such that each row, column and block uses all 9 digits. This puzzle exhibits the classic features of a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP). There is a set of problem variables, in this case the Sudoku cells. For each variable there is a set of possible values, in this case the digits 1 through 9. There are constraints that specify which combinations of values are acceptable, in this case the Copyright © 2006, American Association for Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. requirements that no two cells in any row, column or block can have the same digit. A solution to the Sudoku CSP an assignment of digits (values) to each of the empty cells (variables) that satisfies the Sudoku rules (constraints). It is important to recognize that the CSP paradigm has been extended in a variety of directions. It embraces optimisation, uncertainty, change, preferences, continuous sets of values, constraints over many variables, etc. Of course, CSPs are not restricted to puzzles. Some other examples of constraints: • The meeting must start at 6:30. • The separation between the soldermasks and nets should be at least 0.15mm. • This model only comes in blue and green. • This cable will not handle that much traffic. • John prefers not to work on weekends. • The demand will probably be for more than 5 thousand units in August. Some examples of constraint satisfaction or optimization problems: • Schedule these employees to cover all the shifts. • Optimize the productivity of this manufacturing process. • Configure this product to meet my needs. • Find any violations of these design criteria. • Optimize the use of this satellite camera. • Align these amino acid sequences.