. The study of 2D shapes and their similarities is a central problem in the ﬁeld of vision. It arises in particular from the task of classifying and recognizing objects from their observed silhouette. Deﬁning natural distances between 2D shapes creates a metric space of shapes, whose mathematical structure is inherently relevant to the classiﬁcation task. One intriguing metric space comes from using conformal mappings of 2D shapes into each other, via the theory of Teichm¨uller spaces. In this space every simple closed curve in the plane (a “shape”) is represented by a ‘ﬁngerprint’ which is a diffeomorphism of the unit circle to itself (a differentiable and invertible, periodic function). More precisely, every shape deﬁnes to a unique equivalence class of such diffeomorphisms up to right multiplication by a M¨obius map. The ﬁngerprint does not change if the shape is varied by translations and scaling and any such equivalence class comes from some shape. This coset space, equipped with the inﬁnitesimal Weil-Petersson (WP) Riemannian norm is a metric space. In this space, the shortest path between each two shapes is unique, and is given by a geodesic connecting them. Their distance from each other is given by integrating the WP-norm along that geodesic. In this paper we concentrate on solving the “welding" problem of “sewing" together conformally the interior and exterior of the unit circle, glued on the unit circle by a given diffeomorphism, to obtain the unique 2D shape associated with this diffeomorphism. This will allow us to go back and forth between 2D shapes and their representing diffeomorphisms in this “space of shapes”. We then present an efﬁcient method for computing the unique shortest path, the geodesic of shape morphing between each two end-point shapes. The group of diffeomorphisms of S 1 acts as a group of isometries on the space of shapes and we show how this can be used to deﬁne shape transformations, like for instance ‘adding a protruding limb’ to any shape.