Welcome to SIGMETRICS 2007! This year's annual ACM SIGMETRICS conference is being held this year in conjunction with the Federated Computing Research Conference (FCRC). The scope of SIGMETRICS encompasses the development and application of state-of-the-art, broadly-applicable analytic, simulation, and measurement-based performance evaluation techniques. In soliciting papers for this year's program, and in selecting members of the Technical Program Committee (TPC), we made a special effort to maintain a breadth of topic coverage. Application areas represented include: distributed systems, networking, multimedia, storage systems, operating system, web services, supercomputing, compilers, architecture, and more. Analytical techniques represented include: scheduling theory, queueing theory, stochastic modeling, high-dimensional geometry, matrix analytic methods, transient time-varying behaviors, competitive ratio analysis, and more. 
 
The conference received 179 submissions. We accepted 29 full papers and 19 poster papers. We followed a double-blind reviewing process, and each paper was reviewed by at least three members of the TPC. In some cases additional reviews were sought from specialists outside the TPC. The TPC consisted of 54 members from 8 countries. After extensive email discussions among the whole TPC, the final paper selection was made during a 2-day meeting held at Columbia University on January 26-27, 2007, which was attended by 35 of the PC members, the two program co-chairs, and the general chair. The quality of submissions was quite high and, as a result, the selected papers make up a very strong program, which we hope you will enjoy. 
 
After the TPC meeting, a subcommittee selected the best paper award winners. The Best Paper award goes to, "Modeling the relative fitness of storage," by Michael Mesnier, Matthew Wachs, Raja R. Sambasivan, Alice Zheng, and Gregory R. Ganger. The Kenneth C. Sevcik Outstanding Student Paper award goes to, "An Analysis of Latent Sector Errors in Disk Drives," by Lakshmi Bairavasundaram, Garth Goodson, Shankar Pasupathy, and Jiri Schindler.