We consider the fine-grained complexity of sparse graph problems that currently have Õ(mn) time algorithms, where m is the number of edges and n is the number of vertices in the input graph. This class includes several important path problems on both directed and undirected graphs, including APSP, MWC (Minimum Weight Cycle), Radius, Eccentricities, BC (Betweenness Centrality), etc. We introduce the notion of a sparse reduction which preserves the sparsity of graphs, and we present near linear-time sparse reductions between various pairs of graph problems in the Õ(mn) class. There are many sub-cubic reductions between graph problems in the Õ(mn) class, but surprisingly few of these preserve sparsity. In the directed case, our results give a partial order on a large collection of problems in the Õ(mn) class (along with some equivalences), and many of our reductions are very nontrivial. In the undirected case we give two nontrivial sparse reductions: from MWC to APSP, and from unweighted ANSC (all nodes shortest cycles) to unweighted APSP. We develop a new ‘bit-sampling’ method for these sparse reductions on undirected graphs, which also gives rise to improved or simpler algorithms for cycle finding problems in undirected graphs. We formulate the the notion of MWC hardness, which is based on the assumption that a minimum weight cycle in a directed graph cannot be computed in time polynomially smaller than mn. Our sparse reductions for directed path problems in the Õ(mn) class establish that several problems in this class, including 2-SiSP (second simple shortest path), s-t Replacement Paths, Radius, Eccentricities and BC are MWC hard. Our sparse reductions give MWC hardness a status for the Õ(mn) class similar to 3SUM hardness for the quadratic class, since they show sub-mn hardness for a large collection of fundamental and well-studied graph problems that have maintained an Õ(mn) time bound for over half a century. We also identify Eccentricities and BC as key problems in the Õ(mn) class which are simultaneously MWC-hard, SETH-hard and k-DSH-hard, where SETH is the Strong Exponential Time Hypothesis, and k-DSH is the hypothesis that a dominating set of size k cannot be computed in time polynomially smaller than nk. Our framework using sparse reductions is very relevant to real-world graphs, which tend to be sparse and for which the Õ(mn) time algorithms are the ones typically used in practice, and not the Õ(n3) time algorithms.