It is our great pleasure to welcome you to Victoria, British Columbia for UIST 2009, the Twenty-Second Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology. UIST is the premier forum for the presentation of research innovations in the software and technology of human-computer interfaces. Sponsored by ACM's special interest groups on computer-human interaction (SIGCHI) and computer graphics (SIGGRAPH), UIST brings together researchers and practitioners from many areas, including web and graphical interfaces, new input and output devices, information visualization, interactive displays, tangible computing and CSCW. The single track schedule, intimate size and comfortable surroundings make UIST an ideal place to exchange results as well as forge future collaborations. 
 
The call for papers attracted 183 full paper and tech note submissions from more than 20 countries. The program committee accepted 33 papers (18%) after a thorough review process. Each anonymous submission (a first for UIST 2009) was assigned primary and secondary program committee members. The primary committee member assigned at least two external reviewers for each submission and the secondary at least one. After receiving the reviews, both program committee members wrote a meta-review for every submission. Authors were then given all reviews and the opportunity to write a short rebuttal. The program committee then met in New York on June 5-6, 2009, to examine each submission and select the top papers. Submissions were finally accepted only after the authors provided a final revision addressing the committee's comments. 
 
This year's program includes an opening keynote by Stephen Macknik and Susana Martinez-Conde on the neurobiological basis of the perception of magic tricks, and a closing keynote by Eric Paulos on how communities of "expert amateurs" can effect change through the use of novel sensing and computing platforms. 
 
New this year is the Student Innovation Contest, which challenges student teams to develop new interactions on unique hardware. In this first year of the event, contestants will be supplied with a prototype pressure-sensitive keyboard designed by Microsoft Hardware. Posters, demos and the seventh annual Doctoral Symposium complete the program. These are described in the UIST program companion distributed at the conference.