User interfaces to information systems can be modelled by providing generalized descriptions of the contributions to the dialog from both partners: user and system. In this paper, we refer to such descriptions as "interaction models". Due to the probable integration of heterogeneous types of information in future information systems, we discuss an interaction model, which refers to a knowledge based model of document description (cf HAHN/REIMER 86). Using interactive graphics the model employs the feature "informational zooming" to investigate informational entities on an adequate level of abstraction. The knowledge-based full-text information system TOPIC/TOPOGRAPHIC integrates the presentation of various types of information (topical, factual and textual) into a comprehensive interaction model based on informational objects. Only three operators suffice for accessing the information structures at all levels. This is accomplished by context depending menus that are generated dynamically during the dialog if a further specification of the command is needed. Thus a user-friendly access to several layers of information about texts is possible: (1) Topical structures of relevant texts at different levels of generality (cascaded abstracts) (2) Facts from those texts automatically extracted during the text analysis (3) Passages from the original text which are presented according to the user's zooming operations. A survey of the functionality of the system is given in the appendix. l Interaction Models of Information Systems User interfaces to information systems can be modelled by providing generalized descriptions of the contributions to the dialog from both partners: user and system. In this paper, we will refer to such descriptions as "interaction models", which are determined by design decisions 1 This paper is an enhanced version of the paper presented at ACMSIGIR ’87, published in: Yu, C.T. / Van Rijsbergen, C. J. (eds): Proceedings of the lOth Annual International ACMSIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval. New York, 1987, pp. 45-56. This text is published under the following Creative Commons Licence: AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivs 2.0 Germany (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/de/).