It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 9th ACM Internet Measurement Conference -- IMC 2009. This year's conference continues its tradition of being the premier forum for the dissemination of research results on furthering our understanding of how to collect or analyze Internet measurements, to give insight into how the Internet behaves. We paid particular attention to uphold IMC's salient features: the explicit encouragement of publications re-appraising previous findings on new data sets (something traditionally relegated to journal publications), and the co-existence, in the program, of both full-length and short papers. Short papers are intended to convey exciting work in progress with potentially less mature results. This year, we raised the short paper size by one page to 7 pages (as opposed to 14 pages for full papers), in an attempt to relieve the difficulty authors usually face in fitting a full set of references in their short submissions. 
 
IMC is a very selective conference. This year, however, in response to the will of the IMC steering committee and without compromising on quality, a record number of 41 papers were accepted out of 183 submissions. More precisely, 27 full papers were accepted out of 115 submissions, and 14 short papers were accepted out of 68 submissions. As a consequence, the conference has now grown, for the first time, to a full 3-day, more inclusive program. 
 
In selecting the final program, we were assisted by 22 highly skilled technical program committee members, who put an incredible amount of time, effort and professionalism into the selection process. We are indebted to them, as well as to our external reviewers, for their help and thank them all for their dedication. The paper selection process was carried out as 4 successive phases: in phase 1, all submitted papers received 2 reviews; this phase identified 123 papers for further consideration and that received at least an additional review during the second reviewing phase. This was followed by a phase of intensive on-line discussions which resulted in 80 papers being selected for final consideration and thorough discussions during the TPC meeting that was held in Berlin, Germany in July, and which was attended by the vast majority of the program committee members.