To facilitate dynamic spectrum sharing, the FCC has designated certified SAS administrators to implement their own spectrum access systems (SASs) that manage the shared spectrum usage in the novel CBRS band. As a premise, different SAS servers must conduct periodic inter-SAS coordination to synchronize service states and avoid allocation conflicts. However, SAS servers may inevitably stop service for regular upgrades, crash down, or even perform maliciously that deviate from the normal routines, posing a fundamental operation security problem --- the system shall be robust against these faults to guarantee secure and efficient spectrum sharing service. Unfortunately, the incumbent inter-SAS coordination mechanism, CPAS, is prone to SAS failures and does not support real-time allocation. Recent proposals that rely on blockchain smart contracts or state machine replication mechanisms to realize fault-tolerant inter-SAS coordination require all SASs to follow a unified allocation algorithm. They however face performance bottlenecks and cannot accommodate the current fact that different SASs hold their own proprietary allocation algorithms. In this work, we propose TriSAS---a novel inter-SAS coordination mechanism to facilitate secure, efficient, and dependable spectrum allocation that is fully compatible with the existing SAS infrastructure. TriSAS decomposes the coordination process into two phases including input synchronization and decision finalization. The first phase ensures participants share a common input set while the second one fulfills a fair and verifiable spectrum allocation selection, which is generated efficiently via SAS proposers' proprietary allocation algorithms and evaluated by a customized designed allocation evaluation algorithm (AEA), in the face of no more than one-third of malicious participants. We implemented a prototype of TriSAS on the AWS cloud computing platform and evaluated its throughput and latency performance. The results show that TriSAS achieves high transaction throughput and low latency under various practical settings.