Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) is a cryptographic technology with the potential to revolutionize data privacy by enabling computation on encrypted data. Lately, the CKKS FHE scheme has become quite popular because it can process real numbers. However, CKKS computing is not pervasive yet because it is resource-intensive both in terms of compute and memory, and is multiple orders of magnitude slower than computing on unencrypted data. The recent algorithmic and hardware optimizations to accelerate CKKS computing are promising, but CKKS computing continues to underperform due to an expensive operation known as bootstrapping. While there have been several efforts to accelerate bootstrapping, it continues to remain the main performance bottleneck. One of the reasons for this performance bottleneck is that unlike the non-bootstrapping parts of CKKS computing the bootstrapping algorithm is inherently sequential and exhibits interdependencies among the data. To address this challenge, in this paper, we introduce HEAP an accelerator that uses a hybrid scheme-switching approach. HEAP uses the CKKS scheme for the non-bootstrapping steps, but switches to the TFHE scheme when performing the bootstrapping step of the CKKS scheme. The hybrid approach transitions to the TFHE scheme by extracting coefficients from a single RLWE ciphertext to represent multiple LWE ciphertexts. We incorporate the bootstrapping function into the TFHE BlindRotate operation and simultaneously apply the BlindRotate operation to all LWE ciphertexts. A parallelized execution of bootstrapping is then feasible because there are no data dependencies between distinct LWE ciphertexts. With our approach, we require smaller-sized bootstrapping keys leading to about $18 \times$ less amount of data to be read from the main memory for the keys. In addition, we introduce a variety of hardware optimizations in HEAP—from modular arithmetic level to NTT and BlindRotate datapath optimizations. The approach in HEAP is agnostic of the hardware and can be mapped to any system with multiple compute nodes. To evaluate HEAP, we implemented it in RTL and mapped it to a single FPGA system and an eight-FPGA system. Our comprehensive evaluation of HEAP for the bootstrapping operation shows a $15.39 \times$ improvement when compared to FAB. Similarly, evaluation of HEAP for the logistic regression model training shows $14.71 \times$ and $11.57 \times$ improvement when compared to FAB and FAB-2 implementations, respectively.