A k-LIN instance is a system of m equations over n variables of the form si1 + · · ·+ sik = 0 or 1 modulo 2 (each involving k variables). We consider two distributions on instances in which the variables are chosen independently and uniformly but the righthand sides are different. In a noisy planted instance, the right-hand side is obtained by evaluating the system on a random planted solution and adding independent noise with some constant bias to each equation; whereas in a random instance, the righthand side is uniformly random. Alekhnovich (FOCS 2003) conjectured that the two are hard to distinguish when k = 3 and m = O(n). We give a sample-efficient reduction from solving noisy planted k-LIN instances (a sparse-equation version of the Learning Parity with Noise problem) to distinguishing them from random instances. Suppose that m-equation, n-variable instances of the two types are efficiently distinguishable with advantage ε. Then, we show that O(m · (m/ε))-equation, nvariable noisy planted k-LIN instances are efficiently solvable with probability exp−Õ((m/ε)). Our solver has worse success probability but better sample complexity than Applebaum’s (SICOMP 2013). We extend our techniques to show that this can generalize to (possibly non-linear) k-CSPs. The solver is based on a new approximate local list-decoding algorithm for the k-XOR code at large distances. The k-XOR encoding of a function F : Σ → {−1, 1} is its k-th tensor power F (x1, . . . , xk) = F (x1) · · ·F (xk). Given oracle access to a function G that μ-correlates with F , our algorithm, say for constant k, outputs the descrip∗andrejb@cse.cuhk.edu.hk. Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Instutite for Theoretical Computer Science and Communications, Chinese University of Hong Kong. †msabin@berkeley.edu. Computer Science Division, UC Berkeley. Work partially done while visiting CUHK. ‡prashvas@mit.edu. Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Work partially done while visiting CUHK. tion of a message that Ω(μ)-correlates with F with probability exp(−Õ(μ−4/k)). Previous decoders, for such k, have a worse dependence on μ (Levin, Combinatorica 1987) or do not apply to subconstant μ. We also prove a new XOR lemma for this parameter regime. The decoder and its analysis rely on a new structure-versus-randomness dichotomy for general Boolean-valued functions over product sets, which may be of independent interest.