It is our great pleasure to welcome you all to the 2nd Workshop on Information Credibility on the Web (WICOW'08). The aim of the workshop is to provide a forum for discussion on issues related to information credibility criteria and the process of its evaluation. 
 
The web has started to play an important role for many people in delivering information related to their personal and professional lives. However, there is usually inadequate quality control of web content,and, in fact, virtually anyone can publish anything on the web. This calls for methodologies that would facilitate judging the trustworthiness of content that users encounter on the web. Related issue is the analysis of user behavior and, in particular, the factors to which users pay attention when evaluating the credibility of information. In general, the information credibility is a complex, multi-dimensional issue and the effective methods for judging content's trustworthiness should combine technologies from diverse research areas such as information retrieval and extraction, information processing, web search, knowledge representation, etc. Through this workshop we hope to exchange novel ideas and findings as well as promote discussions on various aspects of information credibility. 
 
We have received submissions from 5 continents: Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe and North America. After a careful review process, with at least three reviews for each paper, the program committee has selected 9 full and 6 short papers covering a variety of topics related to information credibility. The accepted papers were thematically grouped into 4 sessions: "Analyzing social networks and discussion forums", "Web content analysis", "Content aggregation on the web" and "Information quality: frameworks and theories". In addition, we are pleased to invite two keynote speakers. The first keynote talk entitled: "Graph Mining and Influence Propagation" will be delivered by Christos Faloutsos from Carnegie Mellon University, USA. Yutaka Kidawara from National Institute of Information and Communications Technology, Japan will give the second keynote talk entitled: "Information Credibility Analysis of Web Content".