Simple Summary Respiratory problems are common in horses and are often diagnosed as a cause of poor athletic performance. The basic diagnostic techniques of the equine respiratory tract examination are not always sufficient for a complete diagnosis of the disease, its exacerbation, remission, or response to treatment. Therefore, advances have been introduced in the diagnosis of equine respiratory diseases. Among them, we can distinguish the high-resolution imaging modalities like computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. These techniques have revolutionized the capability of visualizing detailed anatomy of the upper respiratory tract, offering the practitioners an advanced view of airway pathology and allowing for appropriate management planning. On the other hand, the pulmonary function tests (PFTs), which provide sensitive assessment of small functional changes in the lungs, are able to comprehensively characterize the mechanics of the respiratory system. Spirometry and impulse oscillation system (IOS) analyze intra-breath respiratory mechanics, while electrical impedance tomography (EIT) measures changes in lung conductivity. These methods may be successfully applied to detect airway obstruction and mechanical inhomogeneity in breathing patterns. Presented advanced diagnostic techniques comply with owners’ and trainers’ requirements for accurate and early diagnosis of respiratory tract disorders. This paper reviews advantages, disadvantages, and clinical applications of the advanced diagnostic techniques of the equine respiratory tract. Abstract The horse, as a flight animal with a survival strategy involving rapid escape from predators, is a natural-born athlete with enormous functional plasticity of the respiratory system. Any respiratory dysfunction can cause a decline in ventilation and gas exchange. Therefore, respiratory diseases often lead to exercise intolerance and poor performance. This is one of the most frequent problems encountered by equine internists. Routine techniques used to evaluate respiratory tract diseases include clinical examination, endoscopic examination, radiographic and ultrasonographic imaging, cytological evaluation, and bacterial culture of respiratory secretions. New diagnostic challenges and the growing development of equine medicine has led to the implementation of advanced diagnostic techniques successfully used in human medicine. Among them, the use of computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging significantly broadened the possibilities of anatomical imaging, especially in the diagnosis of upper respiratory tract diseases. Moreover, the implementation of spirometry, electrical impedance tomography (EIT), and impulse oscillation system (IOS) sheds new light on functional diagnostics of respiratory tract diseases, especially those affecting the lower part. Therefore, this review aimed to familiarize the clinicians with the advantages and disadvantages of the advanced diagnostic techniques of the equine respiratory tract and introduce their recent clinical applications in equine medicine.