INTRODUCTION: Prompt treatment of COPD exacerbations improves recovery and reduces risk of hospitalization. Such treatment may be patient initiated with the assistance of an action plan (AP), although it hinges on the patient recognizing the presence of an acute exacerbation (AE). Little is known regarding how a patient experiences an AE. Therefore, this study was undertaken to describe COPD patients’ experience of an acute exacer- bation (AE), as well as the attitude of healthcare providers to including an AP as part of education self management. METHODS: We interviewed 32 patients with moderate to severe COPD who recently experienced at least one AE, as well as 22 healthcare professionals (HCPs) with experience in the management of COPD. RESULTS: The commonest symptoms and signs associated with an AE were: difficulty breathing (84%), fatigue (81%), cold symptoms (59%), changes in sputum color (53%) or amount (47%) and cough (44%). The main precipitants identified were: environmental triggers (47%), infective agents (31%), excessive activities (25%), emotional factors (16%) and changes in medications (9%). Strategies for dyspnea relief included: increasing medications (72%), resting (56%), avoiding exposure to envi- ronmental triggers (41%) and performing breathing exercise (31%). Most HCPs (77%) supported the use of a COPD specific AP for exacerbation self management and for the general management of COPD (77%). They recommended that it be taught through individual sessions, complemented by group sessions and regularly revisited, depending on the patient’s disease severity. CONCLUSIONS: Patient experiences of an AE vary. An understanding of the patient specific symptoms, signs, triggers and relieving factors will be of value in the design of an individualized AP. HCPs and used in comparison of and the visit for and rehabilitation. the COPD education (p=0.023) and pulmonary rehabilitation (p=0.005). In addition, subjects with severe COPD were more often evaluated for oxygen requirements (walking oximetry, p=0.000), and lung imaging for LVRS (chest x-rays, p=0.007 and CT scans, p=0.003). CONCLUSION: These results indicate that management of COPD in a dedicated clinic is more consistent with the CTS Guidelines for Management of COPD compared to treatment outside a specialized clinic, especially for non-pharmacological interventions. was by unrestricted grant from GlaxoSmithKline and the PRIISME COPD (QI), and effectiveness evaluations of the self-management components, measurement tools, and team roles were undertaken. A patient-focused care plan was developed based on optimal utilization of existing resources. program management evaluation/analysis. were diversify build individual and system skill-sets, as well as identi-fies a subgroup COPD in whom dyspnea STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the role of screening spirometry in a high-risk inner city population for early identification of obstructive lung disease (OLD). We hypothesized that inner city adult smokers may have a high prevalence of undiagnosed OLD and have airflow obstruction on spirometry before 40 years of age as a result of possible health risk factors associated with low socio-economic status and multi-inhaled substance use. METHODS: Cross-sectional survey of an incidental sample of 300 adult cigarette smokers recruited through community gathering places in Vancouver’s inner city. Spirometry and an interviewer administered questionnaire. RESULTS: Participants ranged in age from 30 to 74 years (mean 45.7 years; SD 7.8) and had a mean smoking history of 33 pack/years (range 2.5-110.0). Participants reported a high prevalence of respiratory symptoms: chronic cough (64%), chronic sputum (62%), wheezing (59%) and shortness of breath with activity (69%). A past or current history of smoking another inhaled substance was common (marijuana 45%, cocaine 36%). The prevalence of OLD was 10.7% based on the CTS criteria or 31% based on the GOLD criteria. Mild obstruction was found in 7.7% or 21.1% of all participants and severe obstruction in 1.8% or 1.1% based on the CTS and the GOLD criteria respectively. The prevalence rate of airflow obstruction in participants 34 to 39 years of age (30.2%) was not significantly different from the rate (32.9%) in participants 40 years of age or older (p=0.70). Surprisingly, only 22% of participants with airflow obstruction post bron-chodilator reported a physician diagnosis of chronic bronchitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or emphysema. CONCLUSIONS: There was a high prevalence of undiagnosed OLD among a highly symptomatic inner city population. Screening spirometry should be performed in inner city smokers who are 35 years of age or older to promote early detection of smoking associated OLD. RATIONALE: Recent literature has shown that an earlier initiation of treatment after onset of exacerbation will result in faster recovery time and reduced risk of hospitalization. We hypothesized that self-management education with the use of a written action plan provided by a nurse case manager can help patients to gain the proper skills to start an early treatment for an acute exacerbation. METHODS: COPD patients from an outpatient clinic with access to a written action plan and self-administered prescription were instructed to initiate their antibiotics and/or prednisone in case of exacerbation, and call their nurse case manager for supervision. The following data was col- lected: symptoms change, patients delay in taking action to treat their exacerbations (starting antibiotics and prednisone, calling the case manager) and use of hospital services. RESULTS: We report on 187 exacerbations occurring in a cohort of 113 moderate/severe COPD patients with FEV1 of 37 ± 16% predicted (mean ± SD). 161 exacerbations were supervised by the case manager at the time of the event. The remaining 26 exacerbations were detected after the event. 87% of the supervised exacerbations presented with ≥ 2 major symptoms (increased dyspnea, increased sputum volume and/or purulent sputum). Patient’s delay to initiate treatment in supervised exacerbations was 2.04 ± 1.8 days; 85% took action to treat the exacerbation within 3 days. The treatment for supervised and unsupervised exacerbations was similar (slightly more antibiotics and prednisone were used for unsupervised ones) and they had similarly favorable outcomes in terms of health services use, with 68.5% of the exacerbations not requiring any hospital services. CONCLUSIONS: Patients can take an active role, acquire the skills to recognize exacerbation symptoms and start an early treatment of antibiotic and prednisone according to the directives of their written action plan. BACKGROUND: Research has shown that effective pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatments for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) exist. But the challenge is in effective application of this knowledge by health professionals in their clinical settings. RATIONALE: This study explored the role of a written action plan in reducing hospitalizations as a component of a COPD self-management program in a recent multi-centre RCT. METHODS: Patients were randomly allocated into 2 groups: intervention or usual care. The intervention group had access to a self-management education program “Living Well with COPD”, the support of a case manager, and a written action plan with a self-administered prescription of antibiotics and prednisone. Patients were instructed to start both antibiotics and prednisone in case of exacerbation with a change in 2 or more symptoms (increased dyspnea, increased sputum volume and/or purulent sputum) for at least 24 hours. RESULTS: One hundred and sixty six (166) patients with COPD presented with one exacerbation or more in the 12-month study period. Exacerbations (608) were confirmed by a change in at least one symptom; 429 (70.6%) by a change in 2 or more. Antibiotics were used in 61.3% of the exacerbations and prednisone in 47.7%. The combination of antibiotics and prednisone was used more often by the intervention group in exacerbations presenting changes in 2 or more symptoms (52.97% vs. 34.8%, P<0.001). This difference was driven by a higher use of prednisone in the intervention group (55.7% vs. 44.3%, P<0.001) consistent with dys- pnea deterioration. In the intervention group, exacerbations treated with antibiotics and prednisone had less risk of requiring a hospitalization than those occurring in the control group (16.5% vs. 35.1%, P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Improved access to treat exacerbations provided by the action plan plays an role in reducing hospitalization risk. We seven Registered and allied staff the an We the program initiatives that we undertaken to incorporate the and the COPD the monitored and utilization and and the COPD to to optimize care and positively impact quality of life. Our how care practices and patient self-management strategies continue to evolve to meet the latest standards and how research have included as part of our commitment toward advancing the comprehensive care needs of COPD disease management. (RCTs) poster focuses on program outcomes, strengths, weaknesses and ongoing patients with advanced pulmonary disorders. 39 patients (22 women, 17 men) aged 71 ± 10 years enrolled for the first time in an inpatient pro- gram were the subjects. Eligibility were severe impairment of lung function and an ability to read and write English. Patients with significant cognitive impairment were excluded. Patients were studied at the initial admission and subsequent admissions. Measures included spirometry, weight, the 6 minute walking test, HRQL including the Medical Outcomes Survey Short Form 36-item questionnaire and the Chronic Respiratory Disease (CRQ). Statistical analysis of the data from the beginning to end of the program was completed using Version 13.0 of the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences using paired samples Student T-tests, 2-tailed. RESULTS: