Increasing the capacity of the Last Level Cache (LLC) can help scale the memory wall. Due to prohibitive area and leakage power, however, growing conventional SRAM LLC already incurs diminishing returns. Emerging Non-Volatile Memory (NVM) technologies like Spin Torque Transfer RAM (STTRAM) promise high density and low leakage, thereby offering an attractive alternative for building large capacity LLCs. However these technologies have significantly longer write latency compared to SRAM, which interferes with reads and severely limits their performance potential. Despite the recent work showing the write latency reduction at NVM technology level, practical considerations like high yield and low bit error rates will result a significant loss of NVM density when these techniques are implemented. Therefore, improving the write latency while compromising on the density results in sub-optimal usage of the NVM technology. In this paper we present a novel STTRAM LLC design that mitigates the long write latency, thereby delivering SRAM like performance while preserving the benefits of high density. Based on a light-weight learning mechanism, our solution relieves LLC congestion through two schemes. Firstly, we propose write congestion aware bypass that eliminates a large fraction of writes. Despite dropping LLC hit rates which could severely degrade performance in a conventional LLC, our policy smartly modulates the bypass, overcomes the hit rate loss and delivers significant performance gain. Furthermore, our solution establishes a virtual hybrid cache that absorbs and eliminates the redundant writes, which otherwise might be repeatedly and slowly written to the NVM LLC. Detailed simulation of traditional SPEC CPU 2006 suite as well as important industry workloads running on a 4-core system shows that our proposal delivers on an average 26% performance improvement over a baseline LLC design using 8MB STTRAM, while reducing the memory system energy by 10%. Our design outperforms a similar area SRAM LLC by nearly 18%, thereby making NVM technology an attractive alternative for future high performance computing.