We consider the phylogenetic tree reconstruction problem with insertions and deletions (indels). Phylogenetic algorithms proceed under a model where sequences evolve down the model tree, and given sequences at the leaves, the problem is to reconstruct the model tree with high probability. Traditionally, sequences mutate by substitution-only processes, although some recent work considers evolutionary processes with insertions and deletions. In this paper, we improve on previous work by giving a reconstruction algorithm that simultaneously has O(poly logn) sequence length and tolerates constant indel probabilities on each edge. Our recursively-reconstructed distance-based technique provably outputs the model tree when the model tree has O(poly logn) diameter and discretized branch lengths, allowing for the probability of insertion and deletion to be non-uniform and asymmetric on each edge. Our polylogarithmic sequence length bounds improve significantly over previous polynomial sequence length bounds and match sequence length bounds in the substitution-only models of phylogenetic evolution, thereby challenging the idea that many global misalignments caused by insertions and deletions when pindel is large are a fundamental obstruction to reconstruction with short sequences. We build upon a signature scheme for sequences, introduced by Daskalakis and Roch, that is robust to insertions and deletions. Our main contribution is to show that an averaging procedure gives an accurate reconstruction of signatures for ancestors, even while the explicit ancestral sequences cannot be reconstructed due to misalignments. Because these signatures are not as sensitive to indels, we can bound the noise that arise from indel-induced shifts and provide a novel analysis that provably reconstructs the model tree with O(poly logn) sequence length as long as the rate of mutation is less than the well known Kesten-Stigum threshold. The upper bound on the rate of mutation is optimal as beyond this threshold, an information-theoretic lower bound of Ω(poly(n)) sequence length requirement exists.