It is our pleasure to welcome you to the sixth Workshop on Declarative Aspects of Multicore Programming -- DAMP 2011. DAMP is a series of one-day workshops seeking to explore ideas in declarative programming language design that will greatly simplify programming for multicore architectures, and more generally for tightly coupled parallel architectures. 
 
Parallelism is now a mainstream reality. Chip manufactures are turning to multicore processor designs rather than scalar-oriented frequency increases as a way to get performance in desktop, enterprise, and mobile processors. This endeavor is not likely to succeed if mainstream applications cannot be parallelized to take advantage of tens and eventually hundreds of hardware threads. Multicore architectures differ in significant ways from their shared memory predecessors. For example, the communication-to-compute bandwidth ratio is likely to be higher, which will positively affect performance. More generally, multicore architectures introduce several new dimensions of variability in both performance guarantees and architectural contracts, such as the memory model, that may not stabilize for several generations of product. An example of this variability is the family of parallel GPUs, capable of executing thousands of threads in parallel. 
 
Programs written in functional, (constraint-)logic programming, and other forms of declarative programming languages, can greatly simplify parallel programming. Declarative programming restricts the use of side effects and other forms of dependencies; declarative programming allows for a deterministic semantics even when the underlying implementation might be highly nondeterministic. In addition to simplifying programming, declarative languages offer formal semantics that simplify debugging and analyzing correctness. 
 
A total of eight papers were submitted, of which six were selected for presentation. We would like to thank the authors who submitted papers, and also the program committee members for their very valuable time and the effort made in reviewing the papers to ensure that the workshop keeps the quality that is expected from an ACM SIGPLAN-sponsored event. In addition to the refereed papers, the final program includes invited talks by Austin Robison (Nvidia) and Alex Shafarenko (University of Hertfordshire).