The condition in character education of environmental awareness in the formal school is not yet completely able to develop the students' characters to participate and to behave with environmental awareness. Therefore, a value education model is developed by involving three educational environments based on the community value. It aims to develop the environmental awareness characters on elementary school students through the cooperation between school and parent. This research is the development research which aims to find a value education model. The model is compiled in accordance with the community value in developing the environmental awareness characters in elementary school students. The model is developed with two approaches, namely qualitative and quantitative approaches. The data were collected through observation method, interview, questionnaire, and documentation. The main instrument was used in form of non-test instrument with Guttmann scale. The quantitative data were supported with observation data from the connected book Jana Kerti Pariksa. The effectiveness test was conducted with quasi-experimental design with parametric test (t test) with free data form. This research resulted in the community-based value education model to develop environmental awareness characters on elementary school students; the location of this research is Padangsambian Sub district. This model is based on the community values (reuse, reduce, recycle) that are implemented on the learning of Hinduism, extracurricular, curricular, the development of hidden curriculum (school climate and peer). This model is implemented through the approaches of habituation process and intervention. Based on the test with the value of α 0.05, it is proven that the Community-Based Value education Model is effective to develop the environmental awareness characters of elementary school students in which the result of test in stage I and II shows the average result of experiment class that is higher than that of control class. This model is recommended to be applied on school with different