It is my great pleasure to welcome you to MobiCom 2003, the Ninth Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, and to beautiful, sunny San Diego. This year, MobiCom returns for the first time to California, where the first MobiCom was held in Berkeley in 1995. MobiCom has grown substantially since then, from a brand new conference with a strong vision, to the MobiCom of today, firmly established as the premier international forum for research in all areas of mobile computing and wireless and mobile networking at the link layer and above. MobiCom is the place to be in this exciting research area.This year's MobiCom features a very strong technical program, assembled under the expert leadership of Program Co-Chairs Anthony Joseph and Nitin Vaidya. Together with the Technical Program Committee, they undertook the difficult job of carefully evaluating the large number of submitted papers, considering the merits of each through detailed reviews and discussions at the Program Committee meeting, and selecting a technical program of the highest caliber. I would like to thank Nitin and Anthony for their dedication to putting together this great technical program for the conference, and thank all of the authors for submitting their work to MobiCom. In addition, we are fortunate to have what is sure to be an excellent Keynote Speech by Dr. Paul J. Kolodzy, Director of the Wireless Network Security Center (WiNSeC) at Stevens Institute of Technology. Dr. Kolodzy's previous work also includes serving as Senior Spectrum Policy Advisor and Director of the Spectrum Policy Task Force at the United States FCC, and as a Program Manager at DARPA.On the two days before the main conference, we have five tutorials on the latest research areas and background topics in mobile computing and networking, presented by experts in the field; Tutorial Co-Chairs Atul Adya and Jean-Pierre Hubaux did an excellent job of selecting this high quality tutorial program. The day after the main conference features five concurrent full-day workshops on emerging topics related to mobile computing and networking, each organized separately; I hope you be able to stay and take advantage of this great opportunity.On Thursday morning, the conference will feature a lively, informative, and controversial panel discussion on the challenges of a more secure wireless and mobile future; I would like to thank Martha Steenstrup for serving as Panels Chair and Zygmunt Haas for moderating this panel session. The conference also features a combined research demos and student poster session; David Maltz deserves thanks for the huge job of coordinating the demo session and the space and logistical requirements of each demo, and Nigel Davies and James Kempf did an excellent job, under tight time constraints, of selecting the student posters to be presented at the session.