Text to 3D human Motion Retrieval (TMR) is a challenging task in information retrieval, aiming to query relevant motion sequences with the natural language description. The conventional approach for TMR is to represent the data instances as point embeddings for alignment. However, in real-world scenarios, multiple motions often co-occur and superimpose on a single avatar. Simply aggregating text and motion sequences into a single global embedding may be inadequate for capturing the intricate semantics of superimposing motions. In addition, most of the motion variations occur locally and subtly, which further presents considerable challenges in precisely aligning motion sequences with their corresponding text. To address the aforementioned challenges, we propose a novel Hierarchical Semantics Alignment (HSA) framework for text-to-3D human motion retrieval. Beyond global alignment, we propose the Probabilistic-based Distribution Alignment (PDA) and a Descriptors-based Fine-grained Alignment (DFA) to achieve precise semantic matching. Specifically, the PDA encodes the text and motion sequences into multidimensional probabilistic distributions, effectively capturing the semantics of superimposing motions. By optimizing the problem of probabilistic distribution alignment, PDA achieves a precise match between superimposing motions and their corresponding text. The DFA first adopts a fine-grained feature gating by selectively filtering to the significant and representative local representations and meanwhile excluding the interferences of meaningless features. Then we adaptively assign local representations from text and motion into a set of cross-modal local aggregated descriptors, enabling local comparison and interaction between fine-grained text and motion features. Extensive experiments on two widely used benchmark datasets, HumanML3D and KIT-ML, demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. It significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art retrieval methods, achieving Rsum improvements of 24.74% on HumanML3D and 23.08% on KIT-ML.