Semi-structured Document Understanding presents a challenging research task due to the significant variations in layout, style, font, and content of documents. This complexity is further amplified when dealing with born-analogue historical documents, such as digitised archival records, which contain degraded print, handwritten annotations, stamps, marginalia and inconsistent formatting resulting from historical production and digitisation processes. Traditional approaches for extracting information from semi-structured documents rely on manual labour, making them costly and inefficient. This is partly due to the fact that within document collections, there are various layout types, each requiring customised optimisation to account for structural differences, which substantially increases the effort needed to achieve consistent quality. The emergence of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has significantly advanced Document Understanding by enabling flexible, prompt-based understanding of document images, needless of OCR outputs or layout encodings. Moreover, the encoder-decoder architectures have overcome the limitations of encoder-only models, such as reliance on annotated datasets and fixed input lengths. However, there still remains a gap in effectively applying these models in real-world scenarios. To address this gap, we first introduce BZKOpen, a new annotated dataset designed for key information extraction from historical German index cards. Furthermore, we systematically assess the capabilities of several state-of-the-art MLLMs-including the open-source InternVL2.0 and InternVL2.5 series, and the commercial GPT-4o-mini-on the task of extracting key information from these archival documents. Both zero-shot and few-shot prompting strategies are evaluated across different model configurations to identify the optimal conditions for performance. Interestingly, our results reveal that increasing model size does not necessarily lead to better performance on this dataset. Among all models tested, the open-source InternVL2.5-38B consistently achieves the most robust results, outperforming both larger InternVL models and the proprietary alternative. We further provide practical insights into prompt engineering and inference settings, offering guidance for applying MLLMs to real-world key information extraction tasks. Additionally, we highlight the need for more ground truth datasets that include a wider range of historical documents with varying quality and in multiple languages, in order to fully explore the potentials and limitations of MLLMs for key information extraction from historical records.