Next Point-of-Interest (POI) prediction is important to various human mobility applications, such as route planning and location-based advertising. To address the spatial-temporal sparsity issues arising from users' irregular and inconsistent visit times to different POIs, multi-granular structures can be incorporated to enhance feature representation through hierarchical relationships. However, existing methods often fall short in capturing the comprehensive multi-granularity spatial-temporal correlations due to three primary limitations: (1) users' complex mobility patterns entangled in single trajectory data, (2) limited mobility patterns details due to independent modeling at each granularity, and (3) low inference efficiency in cascaded multi-granularity predictions. To tackle these challenges, we propose a novel approach that models transformations across different granularities in both spatial regions and temporal periods as a diffusion process, leading to the development of the Multi-Granularity Spatial-Temporal Diffusion Network (MGSTDN). In particular, this model adopts a multi-task architecture, where predictions at varying spatial-temporal granularities (i.e., different diffusion steps) are treated as distinct tasks. By employing a multi-granularity diffusion mechanism in both spatial and temporal dimensions, it captures more nuanced spatial-temporal correlations, enhancing the physical constraints and behavioral pattern dependencies across granularities. During the diffusion process's forward stage, coarser-grained regions and periods are derived based on fine-grained features. In the reverse stage, finer-grained regions and periods are recovered from coarse-grained features, guided by encoded historical trajectory information, until the next POI is determined. To improve computational efficiency, we introduce a multi-granularity mapping propagation matrix, enabling parallel computation and accelerating the prediction process across different granularities. We evaluated the effectiveness of MGSTDN through extensive experiments on three datasets, demonstrating significant improvements over existing methods.