Similar Text Retrieval (STR) is an essential scenario in the field of information retrieval (IR). Unfortunately, existing mainstream vector-based retrieval methods cannot meet the recall rate requirements in STR scenarios (with a recall rate of less than 72%). This is because existing works have solely focused on the local information of text segments, that is, the text segments themselves ( i.e., semantic information ) and the relationships between them ( i.e., structured information ). Our key insight is that utilizing the global information of text segments ( i.e., summarized information ~. It includes the key expression of the documents to which the text segments belong and the relationship between documents. ) is crucial for improving the recall rate in STR, because the distinction of summarized information helps to filter out confusing vectors during retrieval. However, existing methods using summarized info still have a critical challenge. Their vectorization-based approaches fail to effectively model the global relationship in the summarized information, resulting in a further 79% deterioration in recall rate. To address this challenges, we present the SG-Filter, a novel retrieval framework that integrates summarized information by designing the hierarchical summarized-semantic index and the adaptive filtering strategy applied on it. (1) We propose a hierarchical summarized-semantic index by designing a summarized graph to model the summarized information. Specifically, we exploit the global information at both document and text segment levels through co-occurrence relationships and semantic associations. (2) We propose an adaptive filtering strategy that automatically determines which summarized words to filter per retrieval for effectively utilization of summarized information. (3) To ensure robustness and low retrieval latency, we propose a multi-path merge recall strategy to obtain summarized and semantic information at varying proportions, and develop an efficient vector retrieval method with filtering conditions. Experiments show that SG-Filter significantly increases recall rate by 10.53% ~ 22.92% on average compared with existing vector-based retrieval methods in STR. SG-Filter also ensures retrieval latency remains within tens of milliseconds. The code is open-sourced in https://github.com/strong-leaf/SG-Filter