Modelling the user's multiple behaviors is an essential part of modern e-commerce, whose widely adopted application is to jointly optimize click-through rate (CTR) and conversion rate (CVR) predictions. Most of existing methods overlook the effect of two key characteristics of the user's behaviors: for each item list, (i) contextual dependence refers to that the user's behaviors on any item are not purely determinated by the item itself but also are influenced by the user's previous behaviors (e.g., clicks, purchases) on other items in the same sequence; (ii) multiple time scales means that users are likely to click frequently but purchase periodically. To this end, we develop a new multi-scale user behavior network named H ierarchical r E current R anking O n the E ntire S pace (HEROES) which incorporates the contextual information to estimate the user multiple behaviors in a multi-scale fashion. Concretely, we introduce a hierarchical framework, where the lower layer models the user's engagement behaviors while the upper layer estimates the user's satisfaction behaviors. The proposed architecture can automatically learn a suitable time scale for each layer to capture the dynamic user's behavioral patterns. Besides the architecture, we also introduce the Hawkes process to form a novel recurrent unit which can not only encode the items' features in the context but also formulate the excitation or discouragement from the user's previous behaviors. We further show that HEROES can be extended to build unbiased ranking systems through combinations with the survival analysis technique. Extensive experiments over three large-scale industrial datasets demonstrate the superiority of our model compared with the state-of-the-art methods. characteristics of the user's behaviors: for each item list, (i) contex- tual dependence refers to that the user's behaviors on any item are not purely determinated by the item itself but also are influenced by the user's previous behaviors (e.g., clicks, purchases) on other items in the same sequence; (ii) multiple time scales means that users are likely to click frequently but purchase periodically. To this end, we develop a new multi-scale user behavior network named Hierarchical rEcurrent Ranking On the Entire Space (HEROES) which incorporates the contextual information to estimate the user multiple behaviors in a multi-scale fashion. Concretely, we intro- duce a hierarchical framework, where the lower layer models the user's engagement behaviors while the upper layer estimates the user's satisfaction behaviors. The proposed architecture can auto- matically learn a suitable time scale for each layer to capture the dynamic user's behavioral patterns. Besides the architecture, we also introduce the Hawkes process to form a novel recurrent unit which can not only encode the items' features in the context but also formulate the excitation or discouragement from the user's previous behaviors. We further show that HEROES can be extended to build unbiased ranking systems through combinations with the survival analysis technique. Extensive experiments over three large- scale industrial datasets demonstrate the superiority of our model compared with the state-of-the-art methods.