Aloha and welcome to VLCS'14, the First ACM Workshop on Visible Light Communication Systems held in conjunction with the ACM MobiCom 2014 Conference. VLCS'14 is an innovative workshop premiering this year in a magical location, Maui, Hawaii. 
 
VLCS'14 is the first ACM workshop to examine Visible Light Communication (VLC), a revolutionary communication technology that makes use of visible light from LED lights or LCD display to carry digital information wirelessly between devices. This cutting edge technology begins a tradition of being the premier forum for presentation of research performed by researchers of academia and industry on leading edge issues of applications, novel designs, services including positioning and security, systems, network, access, and mobility management. Our mission will be to bring to light new application domains that could take advantage of the unique properties of VLC and enable understanding of how these diverse application requirements would shape the design of next-generation VLC systems and to give researchers and practitioners a unique opportunity to share their perspectives with others interested in this revolutionary communication technology. 
 
We are delighted to announce our keynote speaker, a distinguished researcher, Professor Maite Brandt-Pearce, from University of Virginia. Maite will present her research and vision for The Future of VLC: Potential and Limitations. In addition, we have an outstanding panel discussion entitled, The Case for VLC: Do Nanometer Waves Trump Millimeter Waves?, organized by Marco Gruteser, Rutgers University. The panel features a central VLCS theme and distinguished speakers. Finally, a dynamic display of demos and posters dedicated to advances in VLCS communication topics will be presented at VLCS'14: organized by Chunyi Peng, Ohio State University and Pat Pannuto, University of Michigan. 
 
The program will include a broad set of VLC-centered topics from camera-based communications to VLC Systems architecture. We encourage attendees to attend the invited talk presentations. These valuable and insightful talks can and will guide us to a better understanding of the future. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for VLCS researchers and developers.