We welcome you to the WWW2017 conference, the 26th of the series, and only the second one to be held in Australia. 
 
The annual World Wide Web Conference is the premier international forum to present and discuss progress in research, development, standards, and applications related to the Web. This conference is organised under the aegis of the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2) in collaboration with local conference organisers in the host city, in this case, the four public universities in Western Australia: Curtin University, Murdoch University, the University of Western Australia and Edith Cowan University. This year, WWW 2017 is offered as the centerpiece of the inaugural Festival of the Web in Perth, a week-long celebration. 
 
WWW 2017 provides an opportunity to hear from the leaders of the web including three distinguished keynote speeches by world-class experts: Mark Pesce, Yoelle Maarek, and Melanie Johnston-Hollitt. There is a rich environment of technical activities, including 164 high quality papers in the Research Tracks, 54 papers in the four alternate tracks, over 100 papers in 15 workshops, 13 tutorial sessions, a Ph.D. Symposium track comprising presentations by seven doctoral students, an Industry track consisting of 20 papers focused on applied research, 20 demonstrations, a W3C track examining the latest Web standards and emerging technologies and 64 posters with, for the first time, a number of these offered as e-posters to augment the static poster panels. Overall, WWW2017 provides more than 400 high quality presentations on the key research and development issues of the World Wide Web. 
 
Co-located events in the Festival of the Web 2017 include the 4th Big Data Innovators Gathering (BIG 2017), the Web for All conference (W4A2017), and the 5th Serious Games and Applications for Health conference (SeGaH'17). In addition, several new events include Collaboration-Innovation, a one day conference focusing on building smart business innovation through collaboration; the Trust Factory, a curated forum exploring issues of trust and privacy on the web; and Bytes and Rights, a conference focused on issues of web governance, copyright, digital rights, privacy and security on the web. Finally, the Big Day In is a one-day IT careers conference designed by students for students, including tips and advice for secondary school students interested in IT and the web. 
 
Given Perth's location in one of the world's richest areas of natural resources, DeepSensor, a world class gathering of industry professionals, is being conducted as part of the Festival as an opportunity for professionals to share their real-world insights into the continuing development of the internet of things in the mining, oil and gas industries.