Research in data warehousing and OLAP has produced important technologies for the design, management and use of information systems for decision support. Much of the interest and success in this area can be attributed to the need for software and tools to improve data management and analysis given the large amounts of information that are being accumulated in corporate as well as scientific databases.However, even though the high maturity of these technologies, new data needs or applications currently run at companies not only demand more capacity, but also new methods, models, techniques or architectures to satisfy these new needs. Some of the hot topics in data warehouses (DWs) include distributed DWs, advanced OLAP for business intelligence, web warehouses, DWs for new applications such as XML documents, stream data, spatial or GIS data or biomedical data. Moreover, there are other aspects very developed in other software areas such as security or quality, which still remain uncovered by current design methods or technologies for DWs.Like the previous successful DOLAP workshops held in conjunction with CIKMs, the eighth edition of the Workshop on Data Warehousing and OLAP (DOLAP'05) aims to synergistically connect the research community and industry practitioners. It provides an international forum where both researchers and practitioners can share their findings in theoretical foundations, current methodologies, and practical experiences. This year, DOLAP'05 will be specially focused on new research directions and emerging application domains in the areas of data warehousing and OLAP.This year, we received papers from 18 different countries distributed over all continents such as The Netherlands, France, Spain, Israel, Korea, USA, Canada and Argentine. We received 31 submissions and, after a careful review, only 12 papers were selected by the Program Committee, making an acceptance rate of 38.7%.These proceedings contain the papers selected for presentation at the workshop. The accepted papers were presented in 5 sessions: (i) querying OLAP databases, (ii) data warehouse models, (iii, iv) data warehouse design, and (v) query processing and view maintenance. A keynote address was given by Jens Lechtenburger on Schema transformations. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for data warehousing and OLAP researchers and practitioners.