This paper contains an algorithm and a computer programm for a natural from the human point of view splitting into sections of a two-dimensional pic-ture* Contemplating a picture, a human being draws in his imagination borders, sorting out sections, which he supposes to be homogeneous for the time being, in spite of their posessing an internal structure Some times such borders are drawn following some qualities of an object,which he expects to find in the picture, for example, when completing a partly detected image. In other cases the borders are drawn by analysing the characteristics of the picture itself. The sections, being separated in the latter case are usually known by the name of textures. An example of a picture, containing three textures, is shown on Pig.I. say not taxing into consideration the internal structure of separated area.But the possibility of disregarding the internal structure is to be considered only as the aim or the result of textural analysis , but not as a procedure of it. The illusion of disregarding internal structure in the process of perception derives probably from the fact that the amount of information about the internal structure necessary for splitting the picture into sections is much lesser than the whole amount of in formation contained in the picture. The most important problem in this case is the establishing of bondaries, in shich the characteristics of similar fragments can change, e.g the establishing of the system of thre aholds. For solving this problem, in the present paper the phenomenon of "sepa-ration into groups" is used. The effecen-cy of using this phenomenon in solving the problems of recognition was analysed in M.M.Bongard's book (I) and the phenomenon itself was applied by M.M.Ma-ksimov for a learning programm of recognizing pictures (2). The fact that the human being does really use the phenomenon of "separation into groups" was shown in psychological experiments (3), For establishing the threshold values, histogramms of elementary frag-ment's distribution according to the values of certain characteristics were drawn. Among the characteristics only those, the histogramms of which have a distinct separation of columns into groups were chosen. Examples of separable and non-separable histogramms are shown on Fig. 2 The main procedure of the approach applied in the present paper implies the measutement of a certain characteristic on each elemantery fragment,in which the basic picture was initially broken and then conbining the fragments posessing similar characteristics …