We are delighted to welcome you to SIGMOD 2012, the 2012 edition of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, in Scottsdale, Arizona, in the Southwest of the United States. Scottsdale is in the heart of the Sonoran Desert and offers stunning desert vistas and a breathtaking setting for the conference. At the same time, Scottsdale is adjacent to Phoenix, one of the largest and fastest-growing cities in the United States. 
 
SIGMOD 2012 hosts an exciting technical program, with two keynote talks, by Pat Hanrahan (Stanford University and Tableau Software) and Amin Vahdat (University of California, San Diego and Google); a plenary session with "Perspectives on Big Data," by Donald Kossmann (ETHZ), Kristen LeFevre (Google Research and University of Michigan), Sam Madden (MIT), and Anand Rajaraman (@WalmartLabs); 48 research paper presentations; six tutorials; 30 demonstrations; and 18 industrial presentations. In addition to having full 30-minute presentation slots, research papers are included in one of two Research Plenary Poster Sessions. One of these sessions is jointly for PODS and SIGMOD research papers, to deepen the ties between the two conferences. Another new plenary poster session, for papers from the 11 workshops co-located with SIGMOD 2012, is an effort to strengthen the link and synergy between the workshops and the conference. 
 
SIGMOD 2012 includes several technical and social events designed specifically for student attendees. The SIGMOD/PODS 2012 Ph.D. Symposium, the Database Mentoring Workshop, the Undergraduate Research Poster Competition, and the New Researcher Symposium are all established components of the SIGMOD program and are all part of SIGMOD 2012. The conference also hosts a session dedicated to highlighting the finalists of the SIGMOD Programming Contest. (This year's task is to implement a multidimensional, high-throughput, in-memory indexing system.) In addition, the conference includes a new Information Session on Careers in Industry, aimed at bringing student attendees together with our Gold, Platinum, and Diamond sponsors, as well as "vis-a-vis" meetings aimed at helping Ph.D. students meet internationally recognized researchers in their research areas, to exchange ideas and receive guidance in a relaxed social setting.