Threshold private set intersection (TPSI) allows multiple parties to learn the intersection of their input sets only if the size of the intersection is greater than a certain threshold. This task has been demonstrated useful with practical applications, and thus many active research has been conducted. However, current solutions for TPSI are still slow for large input sets e.g., n=2^20 for the set size, and the potentially practical candidates are only secure against semi-honest adversaries. For the basic PSI, there have been efficient and scalable solutions, even in the malicious settings. It is interesting to determine whether adding a threshold feature would inherently incur a large overhead to PSI. To bridge the gap, we introduce a new notion called probabilistic TPSI, where the parties learn the intersection \I with probability proportional to the size of \I. This functionality trades a small probability of bad events (i.e., the parties can learn insufficiently large \I) for new directions of efficient and scalable designs. As a novel technical contribution, we design an efficient multiparty probabilistic set size test protocol, which together with any standard PSI realizes the probabilistic variant in the semi-honest setting. Even though this generic approach cannot be generalized to the malicious setting, we identify nice properties from the prior OPRF-based PSI, which can be further blended with our probabilistic set size test to achieve a probabilistic TPSI protocol against malicious adversaries, with competitive efficiency and scalability. In summary, we show (1) in the semi-honest setting, there exists a probabilistic TPSI that is essentially as efficient as a generic PSI, and (2) in the malicious setting, there is a two-party probabilistic TPSI that is essentially 2x the OPRF-based PSI of the work (Raghuraman and Rindal, CCS 2022), implying a small gap between PSI and the probabilistic TPSI. We conduct comprehensive experiments to evaluate concrete efficiency of our individual building blocks and the overall protocol. Particularly, our overall two-party protocol for the probabilistic TPSI runs within 7 or 10 seconds (online) for n=2^20 in the semi-honest and malicious settings, respectively. This confirms the practical advantages of our approach.