In video analysis, an important challenge is insufficient annotated data due to the rare occurrence of the critical patterns, and we need to provide discriminative frame-level representation with limited annotation in some applications. Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) is suitable for this scenario. However, many MIL models paid attention to analyzing the relationships between instance representations and aggregating them, but neglecting the critical information from the MIL problem itself, which causes difficultly achieving ideal instance-level performance compared with the supervised model. To address this issue, we propose the Regressor-Guided MIL network (RGMIL) , which effectively produces discriminative instance-level representations in a multi-classification scenario. In the proposed method, we make full use of the regressor through our newly introduced aggregator , Regressor-Guided Pooling (RGP) . RGP focuses on simulating the correct inference process of humans while facing similar problems without introducing new parameters, and the MIL problem can be accurately described through the critical information from the regressor in our method. In experiments, RGP shows dominance on more than 20 MIL benchmark datasets, with the average bag-level classification accuracy close to 1. We also perform a series of comprehensive experiments on the MMNIST dataset. Experimental results illustrate that our aggregator outperforms existing methods under different challenging circumstances. Instance-level predictions are even possible under the guidance of RGP information table in a long sequence. RGMIL also presents comparable instance-level performance with S-O-T-A supervised models in complicated applications. Statistical results demonstrate the assumption that a MIL model can compete with a supervised model at the instance level, as long as a structure that accurately describes the MIL problem is provided. The codes are available on https://github.com/LMBDA-design/RGMIL .