Abslract Recent research indicates a declining enrollment in computer science programs. One particularly disturbing rcvcla[ion is that women seem to bc playing an increasingly insigniticanl role in compu[cr scicncc programs in colleges and univcrsilics in AC Unilrxl Stutcs. This study finds that while the former statement is true, women arc increasing as a percentage of total enrolhncnt in higher education. Evidence also indicates that women possess innate abilities to excel professionally in computer science-related fields. The authors decided to pursue the study of the role of women in computer science. This paper presents the results of their study and identifies the need for further research if women indeed arc being denied equal opportunity in computer science programs and the United States is experiencing a serious opportunity cost in [hc loss of female computer skills. Women in Comm]ter Science A research project conducted in 1990 by Russell C. Kick, Jr. and Wahfcmar Koczkodjac (1990) into the problcm of declining enrollments in computer science programs rcve:ilcd a particular disturbing fact: Women sw.xn to bc playing an increasingly insignificant role in compulcr science programs in colleges and univmsitics in lhc United States. This alarming fact was substantiated by two studies which were published by the ACM (Frcnkcl The implications of worncn playing a decreasing role in computer science programs arc a cause for concern on both the micro and macro ICVCI. (')n the individual Icvcl, the basic question is whether women are being given equal opportunity to and lhrough computer science programs. On a broader scale, the question is whc[her the United States is experiencing an opportunity cost in terms of the 10SSof the computer skills of women, In th~ age of information, the loss of valuable skills on such a grand scale could bc profound since countries, as WCII iis companies, are competing of the basis of knowledge and information, ostensible clircctly related 10 (hc cffcctivc USC of computers. This paper presents lhe results of their study and suMcsts the need for fur[hcr research if women inclccd are being denied equal opportunely and lhc United States is experiencing a serious opportunity cost in the loss of female computer skills.