Prompt Engineering has emerged as a pivotal technique in Natural Language Processing, providing a flexible approach for leveraging pre-trained language models. Particularly, a prompt is used to instruct the model to adopt the nature of given prompts, which became a well-adoptable approach in wide areas of domains. Yet, existing prompt-guided frameworks are experiencing various challenges, such as crafting prompts for specific tasks to achieve clarity and conciseness and avoid ambiguity, which requires time and computational resources. Further existing methods heavily rely on the extensive labelled datasets, yet many domain-specific challenges exist, particularly in healthcare. This study presents Prompt-Eng, a novel framework emphasizing its wide-ranging applications in healthcare, where we design precise prompts with positive and negative aspects; we hypothesize that designing prompts in pairs helps models to generalize effectively. We delve into the significance of quick design and optimization, highlighting its influence in shaping model responses. In addition, we explore the increasing demand for prompts that are aware of the context in multimodal data analysis and the incorporation of prompt engineering in new machine-learning approaches. The essence of our approach is in creating tailored prompts, which serve as instructive guidelines for the models during the prediction procedure. The proposed methodology emphasizes utilizing context-aware prompt pairs to facilitate interpreting and extracting healthcare information from a health corpus by models. The study uses the medical MIMIC-III \footnotehttps://physionet.org/content/mimiciii/1.4/ corpus to predict medicine prescriptions. The paper also explores visual and textual prompts for X-ray image analysis for pneumonia prediction on the MIMIC-CXR \footnote\urlhttps://physionet.org/content/mimic-cxr/2.0.0/ dataset. This approach stands out from existing methods by addressing challenges such as clarity, conciseness, and context awareness, thereby enabling improved interpretation and extraction of healthcare information from diverse data sources.