This paper details recent progress in modelling and understanding the processing, acquisition and evolution of grounded spatial language. It summarises key insights from the project and gives an overview of achievements possible today in integrated A.I. research programs. Spatial language is one of the pivotal achievements of human intelligence. It shows human ingenuity through a staggering amount of cross-cultural variation (Evans and Levinson 2009). Spatial language is ubiquitous and affects all aspects of cognition (Li and Gleitman 2002; Majid et al. 2004). Moreover, spatial language is a metaphoric source of structure for many other subsystems of language such as temporal language (Boroditsky 2000). All of these points make spatial language interesting from the viewpoint of linguistics and psychology. But, spatial language also provides a huge opportunity for research on integrated Artificial Intelligence. Spatial language is an integrated phenomenon that necessarily requires thinking about routine language processing involving perception, semantic and syntactic processing. But, language is also a cultural phenomenon. The languages of the world are very different. Yet humans are generally able to learn languages fast (especially in ontogeny) and adjust to different languages. Lastly, humans actively shape and change language so as reflect changes in the ecosystem, as well as the cultural level (e.g. ideology and technology). This paper surveys recent research on locative spatial language that integrates various aspects of language to build a unified theory. The research aims can be summarised along well-established principles for scientific explanations defined in biology such as Tinbergen’s 4 principles (Tinbergen 1963). For language in general and spatial language in particular, we need to answer the following questions. 1. What is the mechanism? This question targets the processing of spatial language and requires a mechanistic answer of how people conceptualise reality and how spatial grammar and lexicons function.