1 Introduction Electronic cash is a subject of great economic, political, and research importance. With advances in computer networks, in processor speed, and in databases and with advances in note counterfeiting technology and with both individuals' and businesses' desire for remote and more convenient financial transactions, some forms of electronic cash are likely to become widespread within 5 to 10 years. While unconditionally anonymous electronic cash systems have been proposed in the literature, governmental and financial institutions are unwilling to back a completely We present electronic cash systems that we believe can be put into practice. Our systems have the following properties: The systems are reasonably acceptable to users who are concerned about invasion of their privacy. We envision that each individual is allowed to withdraw remotely a modest amount of completely untraceable electronic cash, say about $100, per day. Other completely untraceable cash would be withdrawn in-person from such places as an ATM or from a bank branch. anonymous system. Instead, they-have proposed systems with little or no nrotection for the users' nrivacv. Their reasons for opposing complete untraceability have to do with the containment of user fraud and the desire to restrict the new kinds of crime that unrestricted remotely withdrawable and spendable electronic cash could facilitate. We introduce the first electronic cash systems which incorporate trustee-based tracing but otherwise provably protect user anonymity. We expand on the provably anonymous electronic cash svstems of TB931 and lFY921. Our svs-terns maintain the prebious pap&s' bomplete provable user anonymity except that, only with the cooperation of several publicly appointed trustees key-escrow agents), the government can trace a user's spen 6 ing with certainty, determining to whom the user gave his/her money and how much s/he gave. The trustees can answer the question of whether a particular payment was made by a particular user, without revealing any additional information. This allows for authorized forward and backward tracing that does not impinge on the privacy of anyone other than the parties of the one transaction in question. The trustee-based tracing requires no tamper-resistant hardware and can be implemented as either on-line or off-line systems. For those concerned about the trustability of the trustees, we describe how a mutually distrustful government and user can construct an electronic trustee, a device which can be used in place of (or in addition to) ordinary human trustees. This device, which does use tamper-resistant and tamper-detecting hardware, …