We describe a general technique that yields the first Statistical Query lower bounds} fora range of fundamental high-dimensional learning problems involving Gaussian distributions. Our main results are for the problems of (1) learning Gaussian mixture models (GMMs), and (2) robust (agnostic) learning of a single unknown Gaussian distribution. For each of these problems, we show a super-polynomial gap} between the (information-theoretic)sample complexity and the computational complexity of any} Statistical Query algorithm for the problem. Statistical Query (SQ) algorithms are a class of algorithms that are only allowed to query expectations of functions of the distribution rather than directly access samples. This class of algorithms is quite broad: a wide range of known algorithmic techniques in machine learning are known to be implementable using SQs.Moreover, for the unsupervised learning problems studied in this paper, all known algorithms with non-trivial performance guarantees are SQ or are easily implementable using SQs. Our SQ lower bound for Problem (1)is qualitatively matched by known learning algorithms for GMMs. At a conceptual level, this result implies that &#x2013; as far as SQ algorithms are concerned &#x2013; the computational complexity of learning GMMs is inherently exponential in the dimension of the latent space} &#x2013; even though there is no such information-theoretic barrier. Our lower bound for Problem (2) implies that the accuracy of the robust learning algorithm in \cite{DiakonikolasKKLMS16} is essentially best possible among all polynomial-time SQ algorithms. On the positive side, we also give a new (SQ) learning algorithm for Problem (2) achievingthe information-theoretically optimal accuracy, up to a constant factor, whose running time essentially matches our lower bound. Our algorithm relies on a filtering technique generalizing \cite{DiakonikolasKKLMS16} that removes outliers based on higher-order tensors.Our SQ lower bounds are attained via a unified moment-matching technique that is useful in other contexts and may be of broader interest. Our technique yields nearly-tight lower bounds for a number of related unsupervised estimation problems. Specifically, for the problems of (3) robust covariance estimation in spectral norm, and (4) robust sparse mean estimation, we establish a quadratic statistical&#x2013;computational tradeoff} for SQ algorithms, matching known upper bounds. Finally, our technique can be used to obtain tight sample complexitylower bounds for high-dimensional testing} problems. Specifically, for the classical problem of robustly testing} an unknown mean (known covariance) Gaussian, our technique implies an information-theoretic sample lower bound that scales linearly} in the dimension. Our sample lower bound matches the sample complexity of the corresponding robust learning} problem and separates the sample complexity of robust testing from standard (non-robust) testing. This separation is surprising because such a gap does not exist for the corresponding learning problem.