A growing number of commercial and enterprise systems increasingly rely on compute-intensive Machine Learning (ML) algorithms. While the demand for these compute-intensive applications is growing, the performance benefits from general-purpose platforms are diminishing. Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) provide a promising path forward to accommodate the needs of machine learning algorithms and represent an intermediate point between the efficiency of ASICs and the programmability of general-purpose processors. However, acceleration with FPGAs still requires long development cycles and extensive expertise in hardware design. To tackle this challenge, instead of designing an accelerator for a machine learning algorithm, we present TABLA, a framework that generates accelerators for a class of machine learning algorithms. The key is to identify the commonalities across a wide range of machine learning algorithms and utilize this commonality to provide a high-level abstraction for programmers. TABLA leverages the insight that many learning algorithms can be expressed as a stochastic optimization problem. Therefore, learning becomes solving an optimization problem using stochastic gradient descent that minimizes an objective function over the training data. The gradient descent solver is fixed while the objective function changes for different learning algorithms. TABLA provides a template-based framework to accelerate this class of learning algorithms. Therefore, a developer can specify the learning task by only expressing the gradient of the objective function using our high-level language. Tabla then automatically generates the synthesizable implementation of the accelerator for FPGA realization using a set of hand-optimized templates. We use Tabla to generate accelerators for ten different learning tasks targeted at a Xilinx Zynq FPGA platform. We rigorously compare the benefits of FPGA acceleration to multi-core CPUs (ARM Cortex A15 and Xeon E3) and many-core GPUs (Tegra K1, GTX 650 Ti, and Tesla K40) using real hardware measurements. TABLA-generated accelerators provide 19.4x and 2.9x average speedup over the ARM and Xeon processors, respectively. These accelerators provide 17.57x, 20.2x, and 33.4x higher Performance-per-Watt in comparison to Tegra, GTX 650 Ti and Tesla, respectively. These benefits are achieved while the programmers write less than 50 lines of code.