The standard parameterization of the V ertex C over problem (Given an undirected graph G and k ∈ N as input, does G have a vertex cover of size at most k?) has the solution size k as the parameter. The following more challenging parameterization of V ertex C over stems from the observation that the size MM of a maximum matching of G lower-bounds the size of any vertex cover of G: Does G have a vertex cover of size at most MM + kμ? The parameter is the excess kμ of the solution size over the lower bound MM. Razgon and O'Sullivan (ICALP 2008) showed that this above-guarantee parameterization of V ertex C over is fixed-parameter tractable and can be solved in time O*(15kμ), where the O* notation hides polynomial factors. This was first improved to O*(9kμ) (Raman et al., ESA 2011), then to O*(4kμ) (Cygan et al., IPEC 2011, TOCT 2013), then to O*(2.618kμ) (Narayanaswamy et al., STACS 2012) and finally to the current best bound O*(2.3146kμ) (Lokshtanov et al., TALG 2014). The last two bounds were in fact proven for a different parameter: namely, the excess kλ of the solution size over LP, the value of the linear programming relaxation of the standard LP formulation of V ertex C over . Since LP ≥ MM for any graph, we have that kλ ≤ kμ for Y es instances. This is thus a stricter parameterization---the new parameter is, in general, smaller---and the running times carry over directly to the parameter kμ. We investigate an even stricter parameterization of V ertex C over , namely the excess kλ of the solution size over the quantity (2LP -- MM). We ask: Given a graph G and kλ ∈ N as input, does G have a vertex cover of size at most (2LP -- MM) + kλ? The parameter is kλ. It can be shown that (2LP -- MM) is a lower bound on vertex cover size, and since LP ≥ MM we have that (2LP -- MM) ≥ LP, and hence that kλ ≤ kλ holds for Y es instances. Further, (kλ -- [EQUATION]) could be as large as (LP -- MM) and---to the best of our knowledge---this difference cannot be expressed as a function of kλ alone. These facts motivate and justify our choice of parameter: this is indeed a stricter parameterization whose tractability does not follow directly from known results. We show that V ertex C over is fixed-parameter tractable for this stricter parameter k: We derive an algorithm which solves V ertex C over in time O*(3k), thus pushing the envelope further on the parameterized tractability of V ertex C over .