There are prepostions which in some of their uses cannot plausibly be treated as heads of PPs. They include the English of in pseudopartitive NPs1 and the German für in interrogative NPs. The existing proposals for the treatment of these prepositions rely on ad-hoc devices and are difficult to integrate in grammars for NLP. As an alternative, I propose to treat the exceptional prepositions as head selecting functors, thus contrasting them with their canonical counterparts which are complementing selecting heads. The resulting treatment relies exclusively on independently needed devices and distinctions. 1 Two puzzling constructions As a starting point, let us compare the NP subjects in (1-2). (1) A writer of comic books makes much money. (2) A lot of Albanians have settled in Italy. The number of the verb in (1) shows that the subject must be singular and that its head is, hence, the singular noun writer. In (2), by contrast, the number of the verb shows that the head of the subject is the plural Albanians, as in the near-synonymous (3). (3) Many Albanians have settled in Italy. The distinction between normal partitives and pseudopartitives is due to (Selkirk, 1977). For a comparison of the two constructions, see 3.3. For the preposition, this implies that its treatment as the head of a postnominal PP is appropriate in (1), but not in (2), since it would entail that lot is the head of the NP and, ergo, that the NP is singular. The phenomenon also exists in other languages. Take, for instance, the Italian di and the French de. (4) Un a po’ few di of macchine cars sono are vendute. sold ‘A few cars have been sold.’ (5) Un a peu few de of maisons houses seront will-be démolies. demolished ‘A few houses will be demolished.’ The auxiliary and the participle agree with the plural feminine macchine and maisons, rather than with the singular masculine po’ or peu. Further evidence against a PP treatment is provided by the contrast between (6) and (7). (6) a. I bought some books yesterday of Salman Rushdie. b. Ho comprato qualche libro ieri di Italo Calvino. c. J’ai acheté quelques livres hier de Marcel Proust. (7) a. * I bought a lot yesterday of comic books. b. * Ho comprato un po’ ieri di libri tedeschi. c. * J’ai acheté un peu hier de livres antiques. Since postnominal PPs can be extraposed, as illustrated in (6), the ungrammaticality of (7) provides some evidence that the nominals which are introduced by the exceptional prepositions are not PPs. It is not only in nominals with a quantifying noun that the prepositions may show unusual properties. An example of a different kind is the German interrogative phrase was für (ein) N ‘what for (a) N’. A peculiar property of this phrase is that the case value of the nominal is not determined by the preposition, which canonically requires an accusative NP, but by the external selector of the phrase. (8) Was what für for ein a-NOM Mann man ist is er? he? ‘What kind of man is he?’ (9) Was what für for einen a-ACC Mann man hast have du you gesehen? seen? ‘What kind of man did you see?’ (10) Was what für for einem a-DAT Mann man hast have du you geholfen? helped? ‘What kind of man did you help?’ The nominal is nominative when it is the predicate complement of the copula, as in (8), accusative when it is the object of sehen, as in (9), and dative when it is the object of helfen, as in (10). This clearly suggests that the head of the construction is the nominal. Confirming evidence is provided by the number agreement in (11). (11) a. Was what für for ein a Mann man ist is das? that? ‘What kind of man is that?’ b. Was what für for Männer men sind are das? that? ‘What kind of men are they?’ The same phenomenon can be observed in Dutch. (12) a. Wat what voor for (een) (a) man man is is dat? that? ‘What kind of man is that?’ b. Wat what voor for mannen men zijn are dat? that? ‘What kind of men are they?’ Further evidence against the PP treatment is provided by the extraposition data in: (13) Wat What heb have je you gekocht bought voor for haar? her? ‘What did you buy for her?’ (14) * * Wat what heb have je you gekocht bought voor for een a