Because large file processing applications are the dominant activity on computers today, it has been a surprise that computer science departments, and particularly schools of business, have been so lax in the attention given to the subject. It is still true that most students receive training in languages such as FORTRAN and BASIC, which must certainly color their opinion of the ability and purpose of computers. Surely few of us would expect a person who is going to be employed in commercial computing to be primarily concerned with the programming of calculations. Rather, what that person will end up doing is requesting and examining information stored in a relatively large data base. It is our contention that such people can be trained in a manner which is directly transferrable to problems in large file processing. Moreover, with this training as the first introduction to computing, one can place computational algorithm languages in their proper context in the commercial world. The ASAP information processing software system, developed by one of us (Morgan) along with Professors Richard Conway and William Maxwell at Cornell University, is a tool for this training. (This software system has been described in the Computing Newsletter for Schools of Business, Daniel Couger, Editor, under the title “Data Management System Available for Instructional Use.”)
 The emergence of the generalized data base management systems (GDBMS) over the past few years has clearly been one of the most significant developments in administrative data processing. These systems had their origins in the report generators and statistical packages of the mid-sixties, but are not logically complete—they are capable of creating and maintaining a relatively sophisticated data base, as well as selectively retrieving and updating information in that data base. Well over a thousand computing installations have now got more than fifty of these systems running (see the article by T. William Olle, “Data Base Management Systems'”, in Datamation, 15 November 1970).