Multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have achieved significant results in various tasks, but their practical application is still severely constrained by hallucination issues, which are particularly prominent in reinforcement learning (RL) optimization processes. This paper systematically analyzes the causes of hallucinations in MLLM under RL training, identifying three key factors: (1) The model relies heavily on chained visual reasoning to guide decision-making during RL training. Thus, error and irrelevant information in visual reasoning can easily cause hallucinations, including inaccurate initial visual descriptions that anchor subsequent inferences to incorrect information, as well as redundant and broad inferential information; (2) Insufficient exploration diversity during the policy optimization phase, causing the model to output overly confident results; (3) The destructive conflict between different samples during optimization is a key factor that leads to false associations and unstable parameter updates. To address these issues, we propose a solution framework comprising three core modules. First, to improve the accuracy of visual localization, we add planning and caption stages before thinking and answer stages. To enhance initial visual descriptions ability, we allow LLMs to respond based solely on the caption and provide corresponding caption reward based on the quality of the response. Second, to enhance exploration capabilities, we classify samples based on the mean and variance of the reward distribution and select samples with high reward variance for training, thereby increasing the model's focus on diverse samples. Finally, to mitigate conflicts between training samples, we identify neural tangent kernel (NTK) similarity as the key factor. Rather than minimizing it uniformly, we regulate NTK similarity by grouping sample pairs based on a similarity threshold. An InfoNCE loss is then applied to pull dissimilar pairs closer and push overly similar ones apart, guiding interactions toward a balanced range. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method significantly reduces the hallucination rate and effectively improves the inference accuracy of MLLMs.