Language acquisition is vital to revealing the nature of human language intelligence and has recently emerged as a promising perspective for improving the interpretability of large language models (LLMs). However, it is ethically and practically infeasible to conduct experiments that require controlling human learners' language inputs. This poses challenges for the verifiability and scalability of language acquisition modeling, particularly in Chinese second language acquisition (SLA). While LLMs provide a controllable and reproducible alternative, a systematic benchmark to support phase-wise modeling and assessment is still lacking. To address these issues, we propose HSKBenchmark, the first benchmark for staged modeling and writing assessment of LLMs in Chinese SLA. The benchmark covers HSK levels 3 to 6, comprising authentic textbooks with 6.76M tokens, 16K synthetic instruction data, 30 test topics and a linguistically-grounded evaluation system. To simulate human acquisition trajectories, a curriculum-tuning framework is introduced, which trains LLMs in a progression from beginner to advanced proficiency levels. Since language production in writing is a key perspective for observing SLA development, an evaluation system is established to probe LLMs in writing, including the coverage of level-based grammar items, writing errors, lexical complexity, syntactic complexity, and holistic scoring. We also develop an HSKAgent fine-tuned on 10K compositions from Chinese second language learners to automate this evaluation system. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that HSKBenchmark not only models Chinese SLA effectively, but also serves as a reliable benchmark for dynamic writing assessment in LLMs. Our fine-tuned LLMs have writing performance on par with advanced human learners and exhibit human-like acquisition characteristics. The HSKBenchmark, HSKAgent, and checkpoints serve as foundational tools and resources, with the potential to pave the way for future research on language acquisition modeling and LLMs interpretability.