Multimodal 3D object detection for autonomous driving, a task for real-world applications, poses substantial challenges in maintaining robust performance under various perturbations and complex environmental conditions. However, most existing approaches primarily focus on performance optimization under relatively ideal scenarios or focus on one or few disturbing conditions (or adverse conditions), lacking systematic exploration of robustness against real-world factors, including high class imbalance, adverse weather conditions, sensor jitter and failures, and significant scene variations. To address this issue, we propose a robust multimodal 3D detector, termed RobusTor3D, which integrates robustness at both the structural and supervisory levels by blending the knowledge from Vision-Language Models (VLMs). Structurally, textual descriptions are incorporated to enhance the semantic richness and diversity of rare classes. This novel semantic injection operation compensates for the inherent class imbalance and modality weakness in conventional visual features. Furthermore, semantic alignment capability and robust representation by Vision-Language Knowledge Extraction (V-LKE) serve as semantic priors to complement modality-specific representations, significantly improving model adaptability. At the supervisory level, we propose a Scene-level Multimodal Consistency Learning (SMCL) strategy, which jointly enforces global semantic constraints across modalities, encouraging the learning of stable and abundant semantic representations. This special design specifically reduces the impact of spatial alignment, while notably enabling semantic compensation under modality-loss conditions. Extensive robustness experiments conducted on KITTI, KITTI-C, and CADC benchmarks evaluate five robustness aspects, including long-tail problem, adverse weather (rain, snow, fog, strong sunlight), sensor spatial misalignment and motion blur, modality loss, and cross-domain scenarios. The results show that RobusTor3D demonstrates superior robustness across all five evaluated aspects. It consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods under various challenging conditions.