Hiding information in text documents has been a hot topic recently, with the most typical schemes of utilizing fonts. By constructing several fonts with similar appearances, information can be effectively represented and embedded in documents. However, due to the unstructured characteristic, font vectors are more difficult to synthesize than font images. Existing methods mainly use handcrafted features to design the fonts manually, which is time-consuming and labor-intensive. Moreover, due to the diversity of fonts, handcrafted features are not generalizable to different fonts. Besides, in practice, since documents might be distorted through transmission, ensuring extractability under distortions is also an important requirement. Therefore, three requirements are imposed on vector font generation in this domain: automaticity, generalizability, and robustness. However, none of the existing methods can satisfy these requirements well and simultaneously.
To satisfy the above requirements, we propose AutoStegaFont, an automatic vector font synthesis scheme for hiding information in documents. Specifically, we design a two-stage and dual-modality learning framework. In the first stage, we jointly train an encoder and a decoder to invisibly encode the font images with different information. To ensure robustness, we target designing a noise layer to work with the encoder and decoder during training. In the second stage, we employ a differentiable rasterizer to establish a connection between the image and the vector modality. Then, we design an optimization algorithm to convey the information from the encoded image to the corresponding vector. Thus the encoded font vectors can be automatically generated. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of our scheme in automatically synthesizing vector fonts for hiding information in documents, with robustness to distortions caused by low-resolution screenshots, printing, and photography. Besides, the proposed framework has better generalizability to fonts with diverse styles and languages.