The potentially detrimental effects of cyberbullying have led to the development of numerous automated, data–driven approaches, with emphasis on classification accuracy. Cyberbullying, as a form of abusive online behavior, although not well–defined, is a repetitive process, i.e., a sequence of aggressive messages sent from a bully to a victim over a period of time with the intent to harm the victim. Existing work has focused on harassment (i.e., using profanity to classify toxic comments independently) as an indicator of cyberbullying, disregarding the repetitive nature of this harassing process. However, raising a cyberbullying alert immediately after an aggressive comment is detected can lead to a high number of false positives. At the same time, two key practical challenges remain unaddressed: (i) timeliness: the state–of–the–art relies on a fixed set of features learned during training for offline detection (i.e., after all correspondence has become available), hindering the ability to respond in a timely manner (i.e., as soon as possible) to cyberbullying events. (ii) scalabilty: the scalability of existing methods to the staggering rates at which content is generated (e.g., 95 million photos and videos are shared on Instagram per day1) has largely remained unaddressed. In my lightning talk, I will introduce CONcISE, a novel approach for timely and accurate Cyberbullying detectiON on Instagram media SEssions, that has been accepted for presentation at the main conference [1]. Specifically, I will present a novel two–stage online approach (illustrated in Figure 1) designed to reduce the time to raise a cyberbullying alert by (i) sequentially examining comments as they become available over time, and (ii) minimizing the number of feature evaluations necessary for a decision to be made for each comment. By formalizing the problem as a sequential hypothesis testing problem, a novel algorithm has been developed that satisfies four key properties: accuracy, repetitiveness, timeliness, and efficiency. Extensive experiments on a real–world Instagram dataset with ∼ 4M users and ∼ 10M comments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach with respect to accuracy, timeliness, efficiency, and robustness, and show that it consistently outperforms the stat–of–the–art, often by a considerable margin.