It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the WWW 2019 Augmenting Intelligence with Bias-aware Humans-in-the-loop (HumBL2019) . The goal of this workshop is to bring together researchers and practitioners in various areas of AI (i.e., Machine Learning, NLP, Computational Advertising, etc.) and crowdsourcing, to explore new pathways of the human-in-the-loop paradigm and disentangle the relationship between crowdsourcing and bias management. We aim to discuss methods where the user has the ability to heavily influence the outcome of the process by providing feedback to the system, as well as the opportunity to grab different perspectives about the underlying domain and understand the step by step machine process leading to a certain outcome. Additionally, we focus on one of the major concerns in AI research: being able to explain and understand the results as well as identifying, avoiding and/or mitigating bias in the underlying data that might lead to unfair or unethical conclusions . Bringing humans and machines together creates a natural symbiosis for accurate interpretation of data at scale. We focus on the partnership between humans and machines in social computing systems, with a special emphasis on human factors and ethics of crowdsourcing techniques , and a wide-range of domain applications , such as healthcare, NLP technologies, translation, data quality control and sentiment analysis. As human-in-the-loop processes are intrinsically related to machine learning , we consider solutions that deal with sparse and noisy annotated data, as well as workflows with crowd-supported active learning. Additionally, we address challenges in the crowdsourced data collection process, including task design, collecting data while respecting privacy constraints and dealing with multi-linguality. Finally, we discuss the different types of bias in crowdsourcing (e.g., gender-related, cultural, cognitive, experience and knowledge bias) that can occur in different steps of the crowdsourcing process, from recruiting and task selection to result aggregation, and analyse methods to monitor and mitigate biases in algorithmic systems through crowdsourcing, as it can help diversify sources of information.