While greybox fuzzing is routinely applied in production environments with great success, directed greybox fuzzing has struggled to gain real-world adoption—despite the great (intuitive) promise and the many optimizations proposed in literature. In practice, directed fuzzers struggle for three critical issues. First, popular implementations build on and compare to ancient baselines, often derived from AFLGo. Unfortunately, none of the optimizations that are essential for performance in modern greybox fuzzers are available in these baselines. As a result, we find reported improvements in directed fuzzing are often only "imaginary" and do not lead to better performance on a modern baseline. Second, directed fuzzing evaluations commonly ignore or misinterpret important factors affecting fuzzing overhead—such as build times and timeouts. As design decisions now build on unreliable data, we find the directed fuzzers perform worse than expected in practice. Third, while almost all directed fuzzers rely on (expensive) analysis stacks, such as points-to and reachability analysis components, they often opt for very different implementations. Since these implementations have their own unique benefits and drawbacks, we find performance differences of directed fuzzers are frequently due to these components rather than the proposed directed fuzzing optimization.In this paper, we investigate the practical impact of these issues by means of an analysis and evaluation of a representative set of popular directed greybox fuzzers. As a way forward, we then present LibAFLGo, a modular directed fuzzing framework that addresses all three issues and allows one to directly compare different directed fuzzing policies on top of a modern fuzzing stack. Our experimental results on state-of-the-art directed fuzzing policies provide two main insights. First, the original AFLGo policies outperform more recent directed fuzzing policies when testing on a modern fuzzing stack. Second, none of the directed fuzzing policies can favorably compete with (nondirected) LibAFL, which scored better overall performance across benchmarks. As such, the quest for efficient directed fuzzing policies must continue.