Schedded supervised laboratories can be used to give the students a variety of experiences. The session can be used to provide help doing the programming assignments or can be usedtogiveaprogramming quiz basedon the assignments or can be used for a formal experiment. In this paper we compare these three approaches in CS 1 and show that quizzes andlaboratoryexperiments can have a positive effect on student retention and on student performance in CS2. Introduction Our CS 1 course [1] has no prerequisites at either the high school or university level, so students entering it have a wide range of backgrounds. Some students have taken an advanced placement course in high school or an introductory university level programming or computer literacy class whereas others have had very little experience with computers at all. CS 1 is required for computer science, computer information systems and management informations ystems majors and also may be taken by engineering students and students who have not declared a major. This wide range of backgrounds forces us to give programming assignments at the beginning of the course that involve many small programs so that those with little or no experience with computers can catch up and yet later in the course give fewer larger assignments so that all students will be well prepared for our CS2 course [2]. The additional assignments caused us to raise the CS 1 course from 3 to 4 credit hours several years ago, maintaining 3 hours of lecture and devoting the extra credit hour to a scheduled supervised laboratory. The laboratory was attached to the lecture and the same instructor was responsible for both the lecture and laboratory sessions. Because of the lab session, enrollment was limited to 30 students and the laboratory was scheduled Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying IS by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republlsh, requires a fee and/or specific permission. ACM-24thCSE-2/93 -lN, USA 01993 ACM o-89791 -566 -6/931000210185 . ..$l .50 in two 75 minute sessions per week whereas the attached lecture was scheduled in three 50 minute sessions or two 75 minute sessions per week. Besides being graded on the laboratory experience, students were graded on their assignments, three tests and a final exam. Most of the points in the final grade total were derived from the tests and exam and the fewest points were derived from the laboratory experience. ‘Ike continues to be much discussion concerning a formal laboratory component in the CS1 course [3,4,5, 10]. An important question is what effect, if any, the activities in a scheduled supervised laboratory have on the students’ mastery of the material as demonstrated by their performance in CS2. In this paper we describe four different types of laboratory sessions for CS1 and compare three of them with respect to their effect on student perfornuume in CS2. Uses for a Scheduled Laboratory Our CS 1 course has had a laboratory session since the fall term of 1983. A number of different approaches to the laboratory session have been developed 1. Use the laboratmy for scheduled help sessions. The idea was to provide a scheduled and supervised environment in which students could come and talk with one another and with the teacher or an assistant. Students were not required to attend the sessions and no special exercises were assigned. Very few students took advantage of these sessions regularly and there was evidence that some students were copying assignments from one another. 2. Use the laboratory as a scheduled supervised session in which students would complete small programming assignments in addition to regular programming assignments or begin work on larger assignments that would recompleted outside the laboratory. Students were requined to attend and could get help from one another or from the teacher or an assistant. The idea with these sessions was to provide all the help a student might need to be successful with the programming assignments. By watching the students work during the earl y crucial steps of program creation, the teacher receives important feedback.