During the summer of 1992 the National Science Foundation sponsored an institute for college teachers on the topic “Bringing the Industry View of Software Engineering to the Classroom.” The institute also received substantial support from three firms with ofllces in Indianapolis that are engaged in software development Digital Equipment Corporation, USA Group, and Eli Lilly. b the first session, twenty participants from a variety of academic programs and institutions were exposed to current industrial practice in software engineering in areassuch as information engineering, project management, estimating and scheduling, change management, creating and maintaining an effective team, quality assuranceand planning for quality, formal technical reviews, CASE, managing the tensions between corporate level management and systems level management and technical documentation. There were also a number of activities and discussions relating to bringing these topics into the classroom. All of the participants were charged with developing teaching units or plans that would incorporate some of these ideas. Two months later the original participants reassembled to share their ideas and plans. During the current academic year theseplans are being implemented, with the result that software engineering courses and computer science curricula at several institutions are being influenced by the institute and the ideas of its participants. The panel presentation will include discussion of the overall organization and format of the institute, details on the topics presented, and what was learned about cooperation between industry and academia as an outcome of the institute experience. Some hints will be given for those who wish to increase the ties between industry and academia, particularly in the areaof software engineering education. The effects of the institute on computer science instruction will also be explored two of the academic participants will discuss the instructional units that they developed, and how their courses have changed as a result of the institute. In addition, a booldet containing many of the teaching resourcesdeveloped by the various participants will be available for distribution at the panel discussion.