The proliferation of smart IoT devices has given rise to tinyML, which deploys deep neural networks on resource-constrained systems, benefitting from custom hardware that optimizes for low silicon area and high energy efficiency amidst tinyML's characteristic small model sizes (50-500 KB) and low target frequencies (1-100 MHz). We introduce a novel custom latch array integrated with a compute memory fabric, achieving 8 μm2/B density and 11 fJ/B read energy, surpassing synthesized implementations by 7x in density and 5x in read energy. This advancement enables dataflows that do not require activation buffers, reducing memory overheads. By optimizing systolic vs. combinational scaling in a 2D compute array and using bit-serial instead of bit-parallel compute, we achieve a reduction of 4.8x in area and 2.3x in multiply-accumulate energy. To study the advantages of the proposed architecture and its performance at the system level, we architect tinyForge, a design space exploration to obtain Pareto-optimal architectures and compare the trade-offs with respect to traditional approaches. tinyForge comprises (1) a parameterized template for memory hierarchies and compute fabric, (2) estimations of power, area, and latency for hardware components, (3) a dataflow optimizer for efficient workload scheduling, (4) a genetic algorithm performing multi-objective optimization to find Pareto-optimal architectures. We evaluate the performance of our proposed architecture on all of the MLPerf Tiny Inference Benchmark workloads, and the BERT-Tiny transformer model, demonstrating its effectiveness in lowering the energy per inference while addressing the introduced area overheads. We show the importance of storing all the weights on-chip, reducing the energy per inference by 7.5x vs. utilizing off-chip memories. Finally, we demonstrate the potential of the custom latch arrays and bit-serial digital compute arrays to reduce by up to 1.8x the energy per inference, 2.2x the latency per inference, and 3.7x the silicon area.