3D perception on point-cloud is a challenging and crucial computer vision task. A point-cloud consists of a sparse, unstructured, and unordered set of points. To understand a point-cloud, previous point-based methods, such as PointNet++, extract visual features through the hierarchical aggregation of local features. However, such methods have several critical limitations: 1) They require considerable sampling and grouping operations, which leads to low inference speed. 2) Despite redundancy among adjacent points, they treat all points alike with an equal amount of computation. 3) They aggregate local features together through downsampling, which causes information loss and hurts perception capability. To overcome these challenges, we propose a novel, simple, and elegant deep learning model called YOGO (You Only Group Once). YOGO divides a point-cloud into a small number of parts and extracts a high-dimensional token to represent points within each sub-region. Next, we use self-attention to capture token-to-token relations, and project the token features back to the point features. We formulate such a series of operations as a relation inference module (RIM). Compared with previous methods, YOGO is very efficient because it only needs to sample and group a point-cloud once. Instead of operating on points, YOGO operates on a small number of tokens, each of which summarizes the point features in a sub-region. This allows us to avoid redundant computation and thus boosts efficiency. Moreover, YOGO preserves pointwise features by projecting token features to point features although the RIM computes on tokens. This avoids information loss and enhances point-wise perception capability. We conduct thorough experiments to demonstrate that YOGO achieves at least 3.0x speedup over point-based baselines while delivering competitive classification and segmentation performance on a classification dataset and a segmentation dataset based on 3D Wharehouse, and S3DIS datasets. The code is available at https://github.com/chenfengxu714/YOGO.git.