We consider the plurality consensus problem for n agents. Initially, each agent has one of k opinions. Agents choose random interaction partners and revise their state according to a fixed transition function, depending on their own state and the state of the interaction partners. The goal is to reach a configuration in which all agents agree on the same opinion. If there is initially a sufficiently large bias towards some opinions one of them should prevail. In this paper we consider a synchronized variant of the undecided state dynamics where the agents use so-called phase clocks. The phase clocks divide the time in overlapping phases. Each phase consists of a decision and a boosting part. In the decision part, any agent that encounters an agent with a different opinion becomes undecided. In the boosting part, undecided agents adopt the first opinion they encounter. We consider this dynamics both in the sequential population model and the parallel gossip model. In the population model agents interact in randomly chosen pairs, one pair per time step. The runtime is measured in parallel time (number of interactions divided by n). We show that our protocol reaches consensus (w.h.p.) in O(log n) parallel time, providing the first polylogarithmic result for k > 2 (w.h.p.) in this model. If there is an initial bias of Ω( √ n logn), then (w.h.p.) that opinion wins. The gossip model assumes parallel rounds. During each round every agent is allowed to communicate with one randomly chosen agent. Here it is known that consensus can be reached fast (in polylogarithmic time) if there is a bias of order Ω( √ n logn) towards one opinion [Ghaffari and Parter, PODC’16; Berenbrink et al., ICALP’16]. Without any assumption on the bias, fast consensus has only been shown for k = 2 for the unsynchronized version of the undecided state dynamics [Clementi et al., MFCS’18]. To account for the yet unsolved general case, we show that the synchronized variant of the undecided state dynamics reaches consensus (w.h.p.) in time O(log n) for every initial configuration. Again, we guarantee that if there is an initial bias of Ω( √ n logn), then (w.h.p.) that opinion wins. A simple extension of our protocol in the gossip model yields a dynamics that does not depend on n or k, is anonymous, and has (w.h.p.) runtime O(log n). This solves an open problem formulated by Becchetti et al. [Distributed Computing, 2017]. Supported in part by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under Grant Agreement no. 824115 (HiDALGO).