Smart phones and tablets have recently become widespread and dominant in the computer market. Users require that these mobile devices provide a high-quality experience and an even higher performance. Hence, major developers adopt out-of-order superscalar processors as application processors. However, these processors consume much more energy than in-order superscalar processors, because a large amount of energy is consumed by the hardware for dynamic instruction scheduling. We propose a Front-end Execution Architecture (FXA). FXA has two execution units: an out-of-order execution unit (OXU) and an in-order execution unit (IXU). The OXU is the execution core of a common out-of-order superscalar processor. In contrast, the IXU comprises functional units and a bypass network only. The IXU is placed at the processor front end and executes instructions without scheduling. Fetched instructions are first fed to the IXU, and the instructions that are already ready or become ready to execute by the resolution of their dependencies through operand bypassing in the IXU are executed in-order. Not ready instructions go through the IXU as a NOP, thereby, its pipeline is not stalled, and instructions keep flowing. The not-ready instructions are then dispatched to the OXU, and are executed out-of-order. The IXU does not include dynamic scheduling logic, and its energy consumption is consequently small. Evaluation results show that FXA can execute over 50% of instructions using IXU, thereby making it possible to shrink the energy-consuming OXU without incurring performance degradation. As a result, FXA achieves both a high performance and low energy consumption. We evaluated FXA compared with conventional out-of-order/in-order superscalar processors after ARM big. LITTLE architecture. The results show that FXA achieves performance improvements of 67% at the maximum and 7.4% on geometric mean in SPECCPU INT 2006 benchmark suite relative to a conventional superscalar processor (big), while reducing the energy consumption by 86% at the issue queue and 17% in the whole processor. The performance/energy ratio (the inverse of the energy-delay product) of FXA is 25% higher than that of a conventional superscalar processor (big) and 27% higher than that of a conventional in-order superscalar processor (LITTLE).