Stick out your tongue at a toddler and she will likely imitate by sticking out her tongue. Imitation is a very common and natural form of learning ubiquitous in humans. Dolphins and some species of apes also show imitative abilities, but only humans are attributed with ‘true’ imitation that enables the acquisition of entirely novel skills (Miklosi 1999). Imitation learning has become a very attractive topic for robotics researchers with the recent advent of humanoid robots and other highly articulated systems (Schaal 1999). Various research groups are working on the problem of endowing robots with the ability to learn and acquire new skills by imitation through demonstration (Atkeson & Schaal 1997; Billard & Mataric 2001; Ijspeert, Nakanishi, & Schaal 2001; Jenkins, Mataric, & Weber 2000; Mataric 2001; Nicolescu & Mataric 2001; Schaal 1997; 1999). One of the primary issues in imitation is finding corresponding actions. When a dolphin nods its head to imitate the nod of its human instructor, it has somehow figured out what action is the one that best corresponds to the demonstration. Similarly, when a child claps her hands to imitate an adult, she has successfully deduced the action that closely corresponds to what the adult did. In both of these cases, the imitators were able to sieve through their motor programs and select a suitable action sequence. This suggests the presence of an intrinsic measure of similarity between actions, which leads us to the correspondence problem. The correspondence problem asks the question: “how similar is an action sequence to the demonstration?”. This problem lies at the very core of imitation. Despite the significance of this problem in imitation, there is almost no work to date in robotics that explicitly addresses it. The bulk of imitation research in robotics has focused on recognition of actions and learning and execution of motor programs. The correspondence problem has largely been implicitly “solved” by making use of very specific heuristic criteria appropriate for the considered task. We are specifically interested in addressing the correspondence problem in imitation. Our aim is to develop a comprehensive correspondence metric that can provide a scalar measure of dissimilarity/distance between any pair of action