We aim to demonstrate an integrated multilingual OPAC module that offers several novel features, including SDI, free-text retrieval and a full thesaurus tree, using an open logical clientserver protocol. The module was implemented under Windows 3. 1/95 and a UNIX server running INFORMIX-4GL while the communication layer is operational under both serial and TCP/IP standards. Note that the new module is part of the integrated library automation system LIBREZTO which has already been installed at several sites in Greece. The need for a new system to manage our catalogue became even greater as we attempted to process thesaurus relationships using Greek character sets, to define character mappings, to switch from one language to another, to produce logical lexicographic orderings, to process voice, image, video, andcardex information, etc.. The protocol is based on ASCII packages which are exchanged using the format: Header% [Flags] Data [Flags], where the header comprises one to four characters and is used to denote the command function or the result set. The first and the second set of flags are used by some commands to enhance their meaning. For example, in the free text search, the flag 10100000000 is used to limit the search into two specific database fields, in this case the TITLE and the AUTHOR. Data contains command parameters or result information. Contact Person E.J. Yannakoudakis, Department of Informatics, Athens University of Economics, 76 Patission Street, Athens 10434, Greece, Tel: +30-1-8214145, Fax: +30-1-8081645, E-mail: eyan@aueb.gr WING: A Multiple-view Smooth Information Retrieval System Toshiyuki Masui, MItsuru Minakuchi, George R. Borden, and Kouichi Kashiwagi Abstract WING (Whole Interactive Nara Guide) is a system to enable smooth information retrieval by integrating multiple search strategies such as 3-D map visualization, hypertext, keyword search, and category search with the same smooth zooming interface. Nara, located about 40 kilometers south of Kyoto, is an ancient capital of Japan and full of tourist attractions like old shrines and temples. Using WING, any vague knowledge about the data can be utilized to narrow the search space, and users can smoothly navigate through Nara at will, by modifying the search area in each view.WING (Whole Interactive Nara Guide) is a system to enable smooth information retrieval by integrating multiple search strategies such as 3-D map visualization, hypertext, keyword search, and category search with the same smooth zooming interface. Nara, located about 40 kilometers south of Kyoto, is an ancient capital of Japan and full of tourist attractions like old shrines and temples. Using WING, any vague knowledge about the data can be utilized to narrow the search space, and users can smoothly navigate through Nara at will, by modifying the search area in each view. Visuahzing Search Results with Envision Lucy Terry Newell, Robert K. France, and Edward A. Fox