Cloud-based applications being developed for consumer electronics market (tablets, smart TVs) struggle to deliver the same level of responsiveness as standalone software, leading to user frustration and slow adoption. Often the network that separates user end-hosts from server back-end is to blame. To limit the impact of poor network performance on message delay, or lag, back-end logic and application data are deployed across geographically distributed servers and user requests are directed to the closest one [14]. Such nearby servers deliver content more quickly thanks to a faster expansion of TCP congestion window and more rapid retransmissions over low round-trip time (RTT) paths. The challenge to realising these benefits is the accurate selection of a server closest to a user, or a group of communicating users. Direct latency probing, for example using ping, is accurate, but time consuming and does not scale [3]. Tools, such as CloudGPS, can reduce the number of user measurements, but require cooperation between ISPs and cloud providers [6]. Content distribution networks (CDNs) rely on DNS redirection, though when a user’s DNS server is not nearby, for example in the case of public DNS infrastructure, the likelihood of selecting a nearby server is low [13]. Instead the research community has proposed a number of predictive matchmaking tools to identify the closest replica server to a client IP based on geographic proximity [1, 2, 9, 15], or network distance [3, 5, 7, 10, 12]. However, these tools suffer from incomplete coverage of the IP space and can make predictions based on stale network measurements. It remains unclear, which of these tools makes the most accurate prediction in most cases. To provide guidance to application developers in choosing a predictive tool for server selection, we have undertaken a comparative evaluation of matchmaking tools. Specifically we are interested in their coverage of the IP space and their accuracy in determining the closest public cloud datacenter to a given IP, relative to direct probing. Our early results, presented in this poster, show a high level of discrepancy between the available tools and motivate further measurement as well as the need to develop techniques for more accurate server replica selection.