This is a report on the OOPSLA ‘94 “Object Model Patterns” workshop. The goal of the workshop was to further each of our understanding of object model patterns. The discussions were lively, challenging, and very stimulating. This report expresses our perspective of this invigorating time together. It is the ability to relate a perceived pattern to past patterns, and to envelop the present position into the overall game plan, that is the true sign of talent at chess. Howard Gardner, Frames ofMind, 1983 Individual patterns are.. the bricks from which we must build our thoughts.. . There seems to be something special in the first time we see a pattern... Patterns in other fields To set the tone of this investigation, we considered some quotable quotes about patterns: About patterns, philosophers and psychologists have been strangely silent; yet most interesting phenomena are almost certainIy patterned.. . Patterns seem to be precisely the wholes that are more than the sum of the parts.. . We find patterns.. .not only in visual and other sensory stimuli but also in language and other symbols, in assessments and diagnoses and, in general, in descriptions of any complex domain. Leonard Uhr, Pattern Recognition, 1966 Like a painter or a poet, a mathematician is a maker of patterns; but the special characteristics of mathematical patterns are that they are more likely to be permanent bemuse they are made with ideas.. . As a young child, he was fascinated by the intricate patterns in an Oriental rug. The resulting visual picture seemed to produce a “melody” with relations among the various parts resonating with one another.. . Creativity includes the ability to take a range of subpatterns, perhaps from areas not previously linked, and see a new pattern. That pattern had repeated unnoticed in the past or can be made to repeat in the future.. . [Summary] Viewed as a whole, these ideas result in a system model of the brain as a modulated pattern extraction hierarchy.. . The justification of the system model is threefold. First, it can be mapped into current brain physiology. Second, it can provide convincing descriptions of neurological phenomena.. . Third some experimentally verifiable predictions derived from the model can be made. -L. Andrew Coward Pattern Thinking, 1990 The recognition of natural patterns is at the heart of both scientific and artistic exploration. Our buildings, our symphonies, our fabrics, our societies---all declare patterns. Artists and scientists alike make it possible for people to appreciate patterns they were either unable to distinguish or which they had learned to ignore in order to cope with the complexity of their daily lives. Once you begin to see these patterns, don’t be surprised if your view.. .tmdergoes a subtle shift.. . Everywhere I looked, I found basic patterns repeating. Pat Murphy, By Nature ‘s Design, 1993 Portland, OR October 23-27,1994