Despite a series of attacks, MIFARE Classic is still the world's most widely deployed contactless smartcard on the market. The Classic uses a proprietary stream cipher CRYPTO1 to provide confidentiality and mutual authentication between card and reader. However, once the cipher was reverse engineered, many serious vulnerabilities surfaced. A number of passive and active attacks were proposed that exploit these vulnerabilities. The most severe key recovery attacks only require wireless interaction with a card. System integrators consider such card-only attacks as one of the most serious threat vectors to their MIFARE Classic-based systems, since it allows the adversary to avoid camera detection, which is often present at an access control entrance or public transport gate. However, all card-only attacks proposed in the literature depend on implementation mistakes which can easily be mitigated without breaking backwards compatibility with the existing reader infrastructure. Consequently, many manufactures and system integrators started to deploy "fixed" MIFARE Classic cards which are resilient to such vulnerabilities. However, these countermeasures are rather palliating and inadequate for a cryptographically insecure cipher such as CRYPTO1. In support of this proposition, we present a novel cipher-text card-only attack that exploits a crucial and mandatory step in the authentication protocol and which solely depends on the cryptographic weaknesses of the CRYPTO1 cipher. Hence, in order to avoid this attack, all cards and readers should be upgraded to support an alternative authentication protocol which inherently breaks their backwards compatibility. Our attack requires only a few minutes of wireless interaction with the card, in an uncontrolled environment and can be performed with consumer-grade hardware. The information obtained allows an adversary to drop the computational complexity from 2^48 to approximately 2^30, which enabled us to practically recover a secret key from a hardened MIFARE Classic card in about 5 minutes on an single core consumer laptop.