This panel introduces and explains the “future directions” and “broadening” discussions at the VLDB Endowment. Panelists are Michael Brodie, Stefano Ceri, Umesh Dayal, John Mylopoulos, and Hans Schek. We report on the steps that are being implemented at the upcoming VLDB Conferences (Mylopoulos). The main objective of the future direction and broadening discussions is to ensure that database technology remains vital. It should keep its pivotal role as infrastructure for application development for data-intensive, central and distributed applications. In a first part we explain the announcement that has been published through DBWorld (Schek). In a second part we report on statistics taken over the last conferences and on first experiences in the implementation of the broadening strategy this year (Brodie). We continue with steps that are undertaken for the upcoming Rome Conference (Ceri) and we conclude with further perspectives on future directions and broadening (Dayal) 1. Future Directions of Database Research Changes in the VLDB Conference PC Structure The following text is taken from [VLDB] after some minor editing. For other other interesting observations on the evolution of database research the reader is referred to documents such as [Si+96] and references given there. 1.1 Background At the New York VLDB Endowment meeting, concerns were expressed that the area of database research may lose the pivotal role it now plays among information system technologies. It was agreed that the Endowment should maintain a watch on trends and future directions in the general area of information management to ensure that database research in general, and the VLDB conferences and journal in particular remain current and relevant. It was decided to set up a small "future directions" working group which maintains an ongoing dialogue with key researchers in the DB community and reports back to the Endowment Board. Working group members were Rakesh Agrawal, Michael Brodie, Michael Carey, Umesh Dayal, Jim Gray, Yannis Ioannidis, John Mylopoulos, Hans Schek, Kyu-Young Whang and Jennifer Widom.