We assess the current state of the art in speech summarization, by comparing a typical summarizer on two different domains: lecture data and the SWITCHBOARD corpus. Our results cast significant doubt on the merits of this area’s accepted evaluation standards in terms of: baselines chosen, the correspondence of results to our intuition of what “summaries” should be, and the value of adding speechrelated features to summarizers that already use transcripts from automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems. 1 Problem definition and related literature Speech is arguably the most basic, most natural form of human communication. The consistent demand for and increasing availability of spoken audio content on web pages and other digital media should therefore come as no surprise. Along with this availability comes a demand for ways to better navigate through speech, which is inherently more linear or sequential than text in its traditional delivery. Navigation connotes a number of specific tasks, including search, but also browsing (Hirschberg et al., 1999) and skimming, which can involve far more analysis and manipulation of content than the spoken document retrieval tasks of recent NIST fame (1997 2000). These would include time compression of the speech signal and/or “dichotic” presentations of speech, in which a different audio track is presented to either ear (Cherry and Taylor, 1954; Ranjan et al., 2006). Time compression of speech, on the other hand, excises small slices of digitized speech data out of the signal so that the voices speak all of the content but more quickly. The excision can either be fixed rate, for which there have been a number of experiments to detect comprehension limits, or variable rate, where the rate is determined by pause detection and shortening (Arons, 1992), pitch (Arons, 1994) or longer-term measures of linguistic salience (Tucker and Whittaker, 2006). A very short-term measure based on spectral entropy can also be used (Ajmal et al., 2007), which has the advantage that listeners cannot detect the variation in rate, but they nevertheless comprehend better than fixed-rate baselines that preserve pitch periods. With or without variable rates, listeners can easily withstand a factor of two speed-up, but Likert response tests definitively show that they absolutely hate doing it (Tucker and Whittaker, 2006) relative to word-level or utterance-level excisive methods, which would include the summarization-based strategy that we pursue in this paper. The strategy we focus on here is summarization, in its more familiar construal from computational linguistics and information retrieval. We view it as an extension of the text summarization problem in which we use automatically prepared, imperfect textual transcripts to summarize speech. Other details are provided in Section 2.2. Early work on speech summarization was either domainrestricted (Kameyama and Arima, 1994), or prided itself on not using ASR at all, because of its unreliability in open domains (Chen and Withgott, 1992). Summaries of speech, however, can still be delivered audially (Kikuchi et al., 2003), even when (noisy) transcripts are used.