Tho work described herein introduces a general logic based formalism for the actions of an intelligent system understandinn natural language sentences, executing com-nands and answering questions. natural language translation state logic derivations logical formulae ^=-====-axioms interpretation of the logic charnctcri-Kripke-type zation nnn-logical mod e 1 :> : ax i om s The heart of this formal system is a state (or tense) Ionic containing special operators for immediately next and preceding states (+,-) as well as for all future states (F) and all past states (P). Natural language texts are analysed syntactically and transduced into state logic formulae by an attributed grammar (in the same way as described by Sehwind). The state logic is formalized by a set of logical axioms and derivation rules for which completeness has been proven. Similar systems have also been mentioned by Rescher. But in usual tense logic systems, the structure of tense has been studied only as to its "pure logical" properties. In intelligent systems however, wo nood theorems about the non-logical properties of state changes. The tense structure of a world is determined by changes within the world which affect the non-logical symbols of the world, i.e. the functions or predicates: If a robot takes a block "a" lying on a block "b", then this causes a change of the world (i.e. a state transition) with the meaning of the predicate symbol ON changing. Such non-logical change descriptions are incorporated into our formal system. A model for the state logic is given by a set of classical structures M and a binary relation P on M where s P s' means that the state of the world s immediately precedes the state s 1. Truth values are assigned to formulae depending on the state of the v/orld in which the formula is evaluated. And the state operators take into account the truth value of a formula in some other states which can be "reached" from the actual state. To represent the knowledge incorporated in an intelligent system by such Kripkc-type models we assign a non-logical interpretation to state transitions. The very general model of Kripke-structures is used in such a way that the relation P bears a non-logical meaning. For two structures Ao and A , s P s' holds iff the ''v/orld" ° A , is obtained from the world A " as the'result of an action which can be executed within …