It is our pleasure to welcome you to the 23rd ACM International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS'09). Since it was held for the first time in Athens, Greece in the summer of 1987, ICS has been instrumental in bringing together the people who design and build supercomputers and develop the software, algorithms and applications that make use of them. This year we continue that tradition as we host ICS at the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, New York. The Watson Research Center is famous worldwide for its contributions to science and technology. Located just one hour away from midtown Manhattan and 5 miles east of the beautiful Hudson River, the facility is within easy access to a variety of cultural, historical, dining, entertainment and sport activities. 
 
We have assembled a strong technical program, with three invited keynote speakers, 47 contributed papers, and a diverse poster section. The contributed papers were selected from a set of 191 submissions, through a rigorous review process conducted by our Program Committee and assisted by more than 250 external reviewers. Together, the PC members and external reviewers provided 814 reviews, or an average of significantly more than 4 reviews per paper. In spite of the large number of high quality submissions, only 47 papers were accepted for publication this year, a 24% acceptance rate. We want to express our appreciation to the large number of authors who submitted their work to 23 rd ACM International Conference on Supercomputing. Their contributions are the primary factor at making this conference a success. 
 
True to the goals of ICS, the papers include contributions in the areas of architecture, system software and applications for supercomputing. Our keynote speakers, Mateo Valero, Don Grice and Ian Foster, provide a perspective on important recent developments affecting the supercomputing community. Finally, the technical program is complemented by two days of workshops and tutorials for further interaction and dissemination of relevant information which we added to enrich your experience at the 23 rd ACM International Conference on Supercomputing.