In this paper we present a new approach to the test of multi-port RAMS. A new fault model that takes into account complex couplings resulting from simultaneous access of memory cells is used in order to ensure a very high fault coverage. A new algorithm for the test of dual-port memories is here detailed. This algorithm achieves qn) complexity thanks to the use of some topological restrictions. We also present a new BlST scheme, based on programmable schematic generators, that allows great flexibility for ASIC design. I - INTRODUCTION Multi-port RAMS are widely used as embedded memories in telecommunication ASlCs and also in multi-processor systems. These special RAM chips are provided by IC vendors as well as multi-port RAM generators that are already available in some ASIC vendors libraries. The testing of these memories is getting more important since they are often embedded in VLSl and ULSl circuits (RAT 901. Efficient algorithms for the test of multi-port RAMS can thus be used in two ways : ASIC libraries providing test algorithms and ASIC libraries providing BIST circuit generators as an option for the multi-port RAM generator. Multi-port RAMS differ from single port RAMS by the possibility of accessing more than one cell at a time. Various authors have studied the fault modeling of single port RAMS as well as test algorithms for the detection of such faults. Coupling faults are a widely used model for the testing of single port RAMS (SUK 811 (THA 781. Recent work on multi-port RAM testing use the same coupling fault models (RAP 88) (NAD 90) or Induction Fault Analysis extracted faults (SAS 901 (which do not take couplings into account). In (CASSl), we have shown that the above fault model is not sufficient in order to test multi-port RAMS. Thus, we have introduced the complex coupling faults. In section II we briefly review the concept of complex coupling. In this paper, we detail an algorithm based on a topdogical approach that results in an O(n) complexity test algorithm with a very high fault coverage. Conceming the implementation of the algorithm and in order to be compatible with the high flexibility provided by ASIC libraries RAM generators, we have developed a totally parameterizable BlST circuit. The development is done using GDP tools and the THOMSON Composants Militaires et Spatiaux (TMS) CSAM ASIC compiled function library.