
 In engineering-design problems, usually, there are multiple goals (or objectives), continuous and discrete variables, nonlinear equations, nonconvex equations, goals with various units, and coupled decisions that are required. Ideally, the target of the multiple goals needs to be reached simultaneously within the feasible space bounded by constraints and bounds. However, the optimal solution to a problem that incorporates one or more of the complexities above may not be available or obtained by designers within the available resource. To deal with all those complexities, a modeling strategy named “satisficing” was proposed in the 1980’s and applied to various design problems in the past three decades. The satisficing strategy allows designers to find “good enough” solutions that “make things work,” yet the solutions may not be optimal. Moreover, with the satisficing strategy, designers may explore the solution space and gain knowledge on the performance through the design space. To carry out the satisficing strategy, a model formulation framework, the compromise Decision Support Problem (cDSP), was once proposed for modeling engineering-design problems, and a solution algorithm, the Adaptive Linear Programming algorithm (ALP), was created for linearizing and solving a nonlinear cDSP and output satisficing solutions, and a solver, the Decision Support in the Design of Engineering Systems (DSIDES), was developed to realize cDSP formulation and solving. In the past 30 years, satisficing strategy has been improved and applied to a wide variety of engineering-design problems. Derived methods, concepts, and platforms using the satisficing strategy are developed. This paper is a review of the representative publications regarding utilizing the satisficing strategy in managing engineering design. Among the publications, different topics are reviewed and summarized, including methods, theories, and frameworks to facilitate the robust design, multiscale and microstructure design, multistage design and concurrent design, coupled decision-making in designs, exploration of the solution space and design space, multigoal and multidisciplinary design, and knowledge-based design and platformation. We generalize the specialties, advantages, and scope of applications of the methods in the satisficing strategy. We expect this paper provides useful information on when and how designers may or should attach to satisficing as a strategy for their problems.