The 5th International Workshop on Trustworthy Embedded Devices (TrustED 2015) was held October 16th, 2015 in Denver, Colorado, USA, and has been co-located with the 22nd ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS 2015). TrustED 2015 is a continuation of previous workshops in this series, which were held in conjunction with ESORICS 2011, IEEE Security & Privacy 2012, ACM CCS 2013, and ACM CCS 2014 (see http://www.trusted-workshop.de for details). 
 
The Internet of Things promises to make reality Mark Weisser's vision of ubiquitous computation set out in his 1991 influential paper. This vision has already started to become reality through modern technologies that allow for electronic systems to be embedded practically everywhere. Yet to make such vision successful, it is widely acknowledged that security of super large distributed systems has to be guaranteed and the privacy of the collected data protected. The Internet of Things, made possible through the wide deployment of embedded devices, differs significantly from "classical" systems, such as desktop (networked) PCs, in various aspects, which include: severe computational, memory, and power constraints, lack of advanced user interfaces, an increased vulnerability with respect to physical or network attacks, inability to provide strong hardware security guarantees, and as mentioned previously, their tendency to collect potentially highly privacy sensitive data. Given the above, major themes of TrustED 2015 include security and privacy aspects of the Internet of Things and in particular of embedded devices as parts of cyber physical systems and their environments. It aims to bring together experts from academia and research institutes, industry, and government in the field of security and privacy in cyber physical systems to discuss and investigate the problems, challenges, and recent scientific and technological developments in this field. 
 
This year, eleven papers have been submitted. Each paper received at least three reviews, which were followed by an online discussion to decide on the program. Papers co-authored by one PC chair were exclusively handled by the other. The program committee accepted six papers that cover a variety of topics, including Physical Unclonable Functions, side-channel attacks, hardware security, system security, and digital rights management in embedded platforms. In addition to the technical program, the workshop featured four internationally highly renowned speakers: Geremy Condra, Marten van Dijk, Jakub Szefer, and Andre Weimerskirch.