Welcome to the Fifth ACM International Workshop on VehiculAr InterNETworking (VANET 2008) in beautiful San Francisco! After the success of the previous four events, 2008 is a great year to continue this exciting workshop. The application of short- to medium-range vehicle communication systems (vehicle-to- vehicle as well as vehicle-to-roadside) technologies is closer to reality than ever before and the widespread deployment of a communications infrastructure on the roadways and in production vehicles has the potential to improve transportation and the quality of life in ways not imagined a generation ago. VANET technology is entering a critical phase where academia, industry and governments worldwide are investing significant time and resources to either prepare for a larger scale deployment decision or to already deploy this technology so that its many benefits in the areas of safety, improvement of traffic flow and convenience can be leveraged. 
 
As the change in the name (but not the acronym) of the workshop witnesses, this year we have made a particular effort in broadening VANET scope, both from a horizontal and vertical perspective. Horizontally, the workshop focuses not only on "ad hoc" type of networks (i.e., car-to-car communications), but on vehicular networks in general (including car-to-infrastructure communications). Vertically, the workshop focuses on issues ranging from physical up to the application layer. The technical program committee composition has been adapted to reflect the broadened VANET scope. 
 
This year we received 35 submissions for the regular program of the VANET workshop. Each paper was assigned to three TPC members and received at least three reviews. While for most papers the final decision was straight forward, some papers with heterogeneous reviews were discussed thoroughly by the TPC members. In the end we accepted nine submissions as full papers while the authors of seven additional submissions where invited to present their work as a poster. Due to space constraints and given the excellent quality of this year's submissions, we had to make very tough decisions during this selection process.