1 Introduction h this paper we introduce a new routing protocol for ad hoc networks built around two novel observations. One, called the distance eflect, usw the fmt that the greater the distance separating two nodes, the slower they appear to be moving with respect to each other. Accor@gly, the location information in routing tables can be updated as a function of the distance separating nodes without compromising the routing accuracy. The second idea is that of triggering the sending of location updates by the moving nodes autonomously, based ody on a node's mobility rate. htuitively, it is clear that in a direction routing dgorithrn, routing information about the slower moving nodes needs to be updated less frequently than that about hig~y mobtie nodw. h this way e~ node can optimize the frequency at which it sends updates to the networks and correspondingly r~ duce the bandwidth and energy used, leading to a fully distributed and self-optimizing system. B~ed on thwe routing tablw, the proposed direction algorithm sends messages in the " recorded dwectionn of the destination node, guaranteeing detivery by following the direction with a given probability. We show by detailed simda-tion that our protocol always delivers more than 80% of the data messages by following the direction computed, without using any recovery procedure. In addition, it mintilzes the overhead used for maintaining routes using the two new principlw of update message frequency and distance. Lastly, the dgorithrn is fully distributed, provides loop-free paths, and is robust, since it suppfies multiple routes. Pemlissiontomakedigitalorhsrdcopiesof allorpartof this\vorkfor personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not mzde or dis~.buted for prolit or commercial ad~arrtageand that copies bcwrthis notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy othm}tise, to republish, to post on senrers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission an&'ora fee. 76 Rom a routing perspective, an ad hoc network is a packet radio network in which the mobile nodes perform the routing functions. Generdy, routing is multi-hop since nodes may not be within the wireless transmission range of one another and thus depend on each other to forward packets to a given destination. Since the topology of an ad hoc network changes frequently, a routing protocol should be a distributed algorithm that computes multiple, cycle free routes while keeping the communication overhead to a minimum (see, e.g., [4]). One way to …