We consider a sequence of related multivariate time series learning tasks, such as predicting failures for different instances of a machine from time series of multi-sensor data, or activity recognition tasks over different individuals from multiple wearable sensors. We focus on two under-explored practical challenges arising in such settings: (i) Each task may have a different subset of sensors, i.e., providing different partial observations of the underlying ‘system’. This restriction can be due to different manufacturers in the former case, and people wearing more or less measurement devices in the latter (ii) We are not allowed to store or re-access data from a task once it has been observed at the task level. This may be due to privacy considerations in the case of people, or legal restrictions placed by machine owners. Nevertheless, we would like to (a) improve performance on subsequent tasks using experience from completed tasks as well as (b) continue to perform better on past tasks, e.g., update the model and improve predictions on even the first machine after learning from subsequently observed ones. We note that existing continual learning methods do not take into account variability in input dimensions arising due to different subsets of sensors being available across tasks, and struggle to adapt to such variable input dimensions (VID) tasks. In this work, we address this shortcoming of existing methods. To this end, we learn task-specific generative models and classifiers, and use these to augment data for target tasks. Since the input dimensions across tasks vary, we propose a novel conditioning module based on graph neural networks to aid a standard recurrent neural network. We evaluate the efficacy of the proposed approach on three publicly available datasets corresponding to two activity recognition tasks (classification) and one prognostics task (regression). We demonstrate that it is possible to significantly enhance the performance on future and previous tasks while learning continuously from VID tasks without storing data.