The paper describes research efforts to develop efficient implementation techniques for large, shared knowledge bases, focusing on efficient concurrent access of large knowledge bases by multiple users. We present an algorithm, called the Dynamic Directed Graph policy, originally proposed in [Chaudhri et a/., 1992], which al­ lows efficient interleaved execution of transac­ tions against a large knowledge base with the intent of optimizing transaction throughput. The implementation of the policy and exper­ imental evaluation results are also presented and discussed. The paper concludes with dis­ cussion on l essons learnt from this research. Large knowledge bases containing millions of facts will soon be here, thanks to research efforts such as the Knowledge Sharing initiative [Patil et a/., 1992] and the CYC project [Guha and Lenat, 1994]. However, tools for building knowledge bases do not scal e up to accom­ modate such large knowledge bases. Our efforts are fo­ cusing on the adoption of database techniques to build knowledge base building tools that do scale up. One of the requirements of such tools is that they ac­ commodate efficient multiuser access of a single, large knowledge base by maximizing throughput, i.e., the number of user-defined transactions that are executed against the knowledge base per time unit. A compara­ ble requirement for databases is addressed by concur­ rency control mechanisms that are routinely offered by database management systems, which have been shown to improve throughput by as much as an order of mag­ nitude or more. A comparable concurrency control algorithm, specif­ ically designed for knowledge bases and called the Dy­ namic Directed Graph policy was proposed in [Chaudhri et a/., 1992]. The main purpose of this paper is to de­ scribe an implementation of that policy and to present performance results which compare the performance of the proposed policy against the performance of off-the-shelve concurrency control mechanisms designed for databases. The paper summarizes some of our findings and concludes with research directions. The outline of this paper is as follows. In Section 1, we begin by motivating the problem. In Section 2, we present the Dynamic Directed Graph (DDG) policy. In Section 3, we briefly describe some problems that were faced while implementing the policy. In Sections 4-5, we present the evaluation of the algorithm for knowledge base applications, and in Section 6, discuss some related work. In Section 7, we discuss the lessons learnt from our research and conclude in …