Old Solutions I would like to start with a quote: 'And how will you enquire, Socrates, into that which you do not know?...if you find what you want, how will you ever know that this is the thing which you did not know? ...a man cannot enquire either about that which he knows, or about that which he does not know; for if he knows, he has no need to enquire; and if not, he cannot; for he does not know the very subject about which he is to enquire.' This quote from Plato's Dialogues highlights that the state-of-knowledge regarding Information Retrieval has not changed very much since his day. It also shows that even in Plato's day it was perceived that answers to the following were not simple: (I) What is a question? (2) What is an answer? Today in the context of information retrieval, an answer to (I) and (2) would be, that a 'question' is a request for information, and that an 'answer' is a set of documents or messages containing that information. However, that is somewhat glib, and not enough~ An answer is supposed to be a set of relevant documents. This immediately raises the fundamental question: What is the relationship between relevance and the information contained in documents, and between relevance and the user of the IR system. In designing these systems we attempt to design them so that they do indeed retrieve relevant documents, relevant to the information need of the user. Hy understanding is that: (a) Relevant documents contain the information sought, (b) Relevant documents satisfy a user's information need. Relevance is to be distinguished from 'aboutness' and 'topicality' It is interesting to ask whether this difference should be taken into account when designing IR systems, and if so, how we should take it into account. To answer this let us first be clear about the nature of IR queries. One way is to examine the types of question that may be asked. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.