I study the problems of optimizing a range of stochastic processes occurring in networks, such as the information spreading process in a social network [Kempe et al., 2003; Chen et al., 2010], species migration processes in landscape network [Sheldon et al., 2010; Wu et al., 2013; 2014a; 2014b], virus spreading process in human contact network. In the typical network design framework, the planner can take a set of management actions, such as adding edges, removing nodes and so on, to construct a network in order to benefit the activities occurring in the networks. The set of actions being taken is called a policy. To characterize and measure the properties of the constructed network, a function is defined to map each possible policy to a real value. The goal is to select a least costly policy so that the value of the policy is greater or equal to certain value. Well known network design problems are Steiner tree problem [Hwang et al., 1992], maximum spanning tree problem [Kruskal, 1956], survival network design [Nemhauser et al., 1993] and so on. Over the last decades, substantial research has been done on both the theoretical and algorithmic aspects of these problems [Gupta and Konemann, 2011]. However, the standard network design framework fails to capture certain types of practical problems in which (1) the planner can take much richer set of management actions, such as raising the probabilities of certain edge being present or select the source that triggers the stochastic process; and (2) the function that maps each policy to a real value may be defined using probability and expectation. Some of these aspects have been addressed in recent applications, such as maximizing the spread of an endangered species called Red-CockadedWoodpecker [Sheldon et al., 2010; Kumar et al., 2012]. However, existing solution techniques are not general-purpose frameworks and cannot model a broad class of network design problems. Moreover, the existing techniques that attempt to find high quality policies such as standard mixed integer program (MIP) solver, greedy algorithms or heuristic based methods suffer from limited scalability or poor performance. 
 
My thesis contributes to both modeling and algorithm development. My first goal is to define a unifying network design framework called stochastic network design (SND) to model a broad class of network design problems under stochas- ticity. My second goal, which is my major focus, is to design effective and scalable general-purpose approximate algorithms to solve problems that can be formulated by the SND framework.