Machine learning competitions have grown in popularity and impact over the last decade, emerging as an effective means to advance the state of the art by posing well-structured, relevant, and challenging problems to the community at large. Motivated by a reward or merely the satisfaction of seeing their machine learning algorithm reach the top of a leaderboard, practitioners innovate, improve, and tune their approach before evaluating on a held-out dataset or environment. The competition track of NeurIPS has matured in 2019, its third year, with a considerable increase in both the number of challenges and the diversity of domains and topics. Demonstrations offer a complementary dimension to the competitions, focusing on areas of machine learning which are either human interactive or demonstrable in some way, for instance robotics applications or generative models. This volume is a compilation of selected papers associated with the NeurIPS 2019 Demonstration and Competition Track. The scope of the volume includes the design of the competitions, analysis of the results, novel methodologies developed to respond to the competitions’ challenges, and the design and development of creative demonstrations. A total of 16 competitions and 28 demonstrations were accepted to be part of the program at NeurIPS 2019. Both tracks were subject to a strict reviewing process to ensure the quality of the accepted events. The accepted competitions are briefly described in Appendix A, and the accepted demonstrations are listed in Appendix B. Two types of competitions were part of the track: regular and live ones. Regular competitions were those that were run during a period of time before the competition session at NeurIPS 2019 took place. Most of those posed a machine learning problem and released associated resources at the beginning of the challenge, then participants should provide solutions to the problems via a challenge platform (e.g., CodaLab1 or AICrowd2). The best solutions, as determined by the organizers, were eligible to win prizes for the different competitions. Live competitions, on the other hand, were run on-site during