Welcome to Zurich! The program of the International Symposium on Wearable Computers 2013 features a mix of long papers, short papers, and posters. This year we received 101 submissions: 54 long papers (up to eight pages), 34 short papers (four pages), and 13 posters (two pages). This is the largest number of ISWC submissions in the last eight years, and continues the upward trend of both wearable computing and the participation in the Symposium. Submissions came from all over the world, with a good balance between North America, Europe, and Asia. 
 
For the review process, we appointed 27 Program Committee members combining long-standing members of the ISWC community as well as new colleagues. All papers were reviewed by at least two PC members and at least one expert external to the PC. All paper formats were held to the same high standards, requiring novelty and a valuable contribution to the field. The decisions on paper acceptance were reached at a two-site PC meeting (in Zurich and San Jose) on May 13th, 2013. We thank all PC members for their participation and for their willingness to engage in technical discussions around dawn in California and midnight in Switzerland! We also thank all the reviewers who dedicated their time to provide high quality reviews. For the submitted long papers, 6 were accepted as long, 5 were also accepted as long with shepherded revision, 2 were shepherded to short papers, and 2 were shepherded to posters. For short papers, 5 were accepted as short, 2 were also accepted as short with shepherded revision, and 6 were shepherded to posters. Finally, regarding the submitted posters, 1 was accepted as such, and 2 were also accepted with shepherded revision. Shepherds ensured that the changes suggested by the reviewers were taken into account in the final versions. The process resulted in 20% acceptance rate for long papers, 23% for oral presentations (long and short papers), and 31% overall acceptance. We thank the authors for their effort to revise and improve the final version of their contributions. The proceedings will be included in the ACM Digital Library and indexed by IEEE. 
 
To acknowledge the quality of this year's papers, we shortlisted five long papers as candidates for Best Student Paper Award and Best Paper Award. An Award committee was appointed to reach a final decision. The Awards will be announced at the end of the conference. Finally, as a novelty to the program, ISWC will also give its first Best Reviewer Award to thank the effort and commitment of nour reviewer community. 
 
We hope you enjoy the program, and look forward to discussing the present and future of wearable computing with all of you!