Online food delivery (OFD) services have become popular globally, serving people's daily needs. Precise area-of-interest (AOI) boundaries help OFD platforms determine customers' exact locations, which is crucial for maintaining consistency in delivery difficulty and providing a uniform customer experience within an AOI. Existing AOI generation methods primarily rely on predefined shapes or density-based clustering, which limits the quality of the contours. Recently, Meituan has treated the AOI contours as a binary semantic segmentation problem. Their approach involves a multi-step post-process to address the issues with boundary breaks caused by semantic segmentation models, leading to decreased quality and inefficiency in the learning process. In this paper, we propose a novel method for AOI contour generation called C-AOI (Contour-based Area-of-Interest). C-AOI is an instance segmentation model that focuses on generating high-quality AOI contours. Unlike the former method, which relies on pixel-by-pixel classification, C-AOI starts from the center point of the AOI and regresses the boundary. This approach results in a higher-quality boundary and is less computationally intensive. C-AOI first corrects errors on the contour using a local aggregation mechanism. Then, we propose a novel deforming module called the contour transformer, which captures the global geometry of the object. To enhance the positional relationship among vertices, we introduce a learnable cyclic positional encoding applied to the contour transformer. Finally, to improve the boundary details, we propose the Adaptive Matching Loss (AML) that eliminates over-smoothed boundaries and promotes optimized convergence pathways. Experimental results on real-world datasets collected from Meituan have demonstrated that C-AOI significantly improves the mask and boundary quality compared to Meituan's previous work. Moreover, Its inference speed is comparable to that of E2EC, a state-of-the-art real-time contour-based method. It is noteworthy that C-AOI has been deployed in the Meituan platform for producing AOIs.