The aging of global population is witnessing increasing prevalence of spinal disorders. According to latest statistics, nearly five percent of the global population is suffering from spinal disorders. To relieve the pain, many spine patients tend to choose surgeries. However, recent evidences reveal that some spine patients can self-heal over time with nonoperative treatment and even surgeries may not ease the pain for some others, which raises a critical question regarding the appropriateness of such surgeries. Furthermore, the complex and time-consuming diagnostic process places a great burden on both clinicians and patients. Due to the development of web technology, it is possible for spine patients to obtain decision making suggestions on the Internet. The uniqueness of web technology, including its popularity, convenience, and immediacy, makes intelligent healthcare techniques, especially Treatment Outcome Forecasting (TOF), able to support clinical decision-making for doctors and healthcare providers. Despite a few machine-learning-based methods have been proposed for TOF, their performance and feasibility are mostly unsatisfactory due to the neglect of a few practical challenges (caused by applying on the Internet), including biased data selection, noisy supervision, and patient noncompliance. In light of this, we propose DeepTOF, a novel end-to-end deep learning model to cope with the unique challenges in web-based long-term continuous spine TOF. In particular, we combine different patient groups and train a unified predictive model to eliminate the data selection bias. Towards robust learning, we further take advantage of indirect but fine-grained supervision signals to mutually calibrate with the noisy training labels. Additionally, a feature selector was co-trained with DeepTOF to select the most important features (i.e., answers/indicators that need to be collected) for inference, thus easing the use of DeepTOF during web-based real-world application. The proposed DeepTOF could bring great benefits to the rehabilitation of spine patients. Comprehensive experiments and analysis show that DeepTOF outperforms conventional solutions by a large margin.