Over the past four decades, the IT industry has relied upon the classical scaling of semiconductor technology to drive both performance and product economics. Often confused with Moore’s Law, classical scaling speaks to the science driving performance gains over the past decades, not the subset economic issue addressing the areal density of transistors on a chip. In effect, classical scaling had been the "glue" binding microprocessor economics, as stated by Moore’s Law, to expectations for ongoing progress in microprocessor performance. The impact of the loss of that linkage with the demise of classical scaling has yet to be fully comprehended. The discontinuity engendered by the failure of classical scaling has shaken the microprocessor and IT industry to its foundation, forcing radical shifts in product roadmaps and business focus for those unprepared. This talk will briefly review the origins of this discontinuity, but more critically emphasize new strategies, such as Holistic Design, as employed to drive continued progress in IT performance. First results of the movement to Holistic Design at chip and system level will be reviewed, as will strategies meant to accelerate efforts in this vein. Biography: Bernard S. Meyerson is Chief Technologist and Vice President, Technology, for IBM’s Systems and Technology Group. He joined IBM Research in 1980, and led the development of silicon germanium and other high-performance mixed-signal technologies over a period of ten years, and subsequently led several large organizations within IBM focused on the development of communications technology, spanning the range from pervasive wireless enablement to high-end data transport. Dr. Meyerson currently leads IBM’s Semiconductor Research and Development Center, the multi-company technology alliance located at IBM’s East Fishkill semiconductor facility. Dr. Meyerson was named IBM Fellow, the company’s highest technical honor, in 1992. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and the IEEE and a recipient of the Materials Research Society Medal, the Electrochemical Society Electronics Division Award, the 1999 IEEE Ernst Weber Award for the body of work culminating in the commercialization of Si-Ge-based communications technology, and the IEEE Electron Devices Society J. J. Ebers Award. He was cited as “Inventor of the Year” in 1997 by the New York State Legislature, and was honored as the 1999 “United States Distinguished Inventor of the Year” by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In 2002, he was elected to the National Academy of Engineering, and in 2003, he was named by EE Times as one of thirteen people “who are influencing the course of semiconductor development technology and taking it into realms that exceed the bounds set by the inventors of the transistor more than fifty years ago.” He holds a Ph.D. in physics from City College of the City Universtity of New York.