Many researchers believe that certain aspects of natural language processing, such as word sense disambiguation and plan recognition in stories, constitute abductive inferences. We have been working with a specific model of abduction, called parsimonious covering, applied in diagnostic problem solving, word sense disambiguation and logical form generation in some restricted settings. Diagnostic parsimonious covering has been extended into a dual-route model to account for syntactic and semantic aspects of natural language. The two routes of covering are integrated by defining "open class" linguistic concepts, aiding each other. The diagnostic model has dealt with sets, while the extended version, where syntactic considerations dictate word order , deals with sequences of linguistic concepts. Here we briefly describe the original model and the extended version, and briefly characterize the notions of covering and different criteria of parsimony. Finally we examine the question of whether parsimonious covering can serve as a general framework for parsing. 1 Introduction Natural languages are rife with ambiguity. There are lexical ambiguities; words in isolation may be seen to have multiple syntactic and semantic senses. There are syntactic ambiguities; the same sequence of words may be viewed as constituting different structures. And finally , there are semantic and pragmatic ambiguities, all of which may be resolved in context. Ambiguity and its context-sensitive disambiguation, it turns out, are two important characteristics of abductive inferences. There have been various attempts at characterizing abductive inference and its explanatory nature [Appelt, to accounting for some observed features using potential explanations consistently in a "parsimonious" (often "minimal") way. Over the past decade, a formal model for abduction based on these ideas was developed at Maryland; this theory is called parsimonious covering. The theory originated in the context of simple diagnostic problems, but extended later for complex knowledge structures involving chaining of causal associations. A diagnostic problem specified in terms of a set of observed manifestations is solved in parsimonious covering by satisfying the coverage goal and the goal of par-simony. Satisfying the coverage goal requires accounting for each of the observed manifestations through the known causal associations. Ambiguity arises here, because the same manifestation may be caused by any one of several candidate disorders. Ensuring that a cover contains a "parsimonious" set of disorders satisfies the goal of parsimony. There could potentially be a large number of covers for the observed manifestations, but the "parsimonious" ones from among them are expected to lead …