We are very excited to welcome you to the 29th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST), held from October 16-19th 2016, in Tokyo, Japan. 
 
UIST is the premier forum for the presentation of research innovations in the software and technology of human-computer interfaces. Sponsored by ACM's special interest groups on computer-human interaction (SIGCHI) and computer graphics (SIGGRAPH), UIST brings together researchers and practitioners from diverse areas including graphical & web user interfaces, tangible & ubiquitous computing, virtual & augmented reality, multimedia, new input & output devices, fabrication, wearable computing and CSCW. 
 
UIST 2016 received 384 technical paper submissions. After a thorough review process, the 42- member program committee accepted 79 papers (20.6%). Each anonymous submission that entered the full review process was first reviewed by three external reviewers, and a meta-review was provided by a program committee member. If, after these four reviews, the submission was deemed to pass a rebuttal threshold, a second member of the program committee was asked to review the paper and we then asked the authors to submit a short rebuttal addressing the reviewers' concerns. The program committee met in person in Seattle, Washington, USA on June 23rd and 24th, 2016, to select the papers to invite for the program. Submissions were accepted only after the authors provided a final revision addressing the committee's comments. 
 
In addition to papers, our program includes 29 posters, 52 demonstrations, and 8 student presentations in the twelfth annual Doctoral Symposium. Our program also features the eighth annual Student Innovation Contest -- teams from all over the world will compete in this year's contest, which focuses on the development of new haptic sensations using Electrical Muscle Stimulation. UIST 2016 will feature two keynote presentations. The opening keynote will be given by Takeo Kanade (Carnegie Mellon University) on new computer-vision technology combining a projector and camera. Naoto Fukasawa (Naoto Fukasawa Design) will deliver the closing keynote on product design. 
 
We welcome you to Tokyo, a city of rich tradition and vibrant modern culture. We hope that you will find the technical program interesting and thought-provoking. We also hope that UIST 2016 will provide you with enjoyable opportunities to engage with fellow researchers from both industry and academia, from institutions around the world.