It has been said that war is to o important to leave to soldiers, and politics to o important to leave to politicians. So als o think some is the teaching of computer scienc e too important to leave to computer scientists. The proliferation of applications-oriented introductory computer science courses taught in othe r departments, rivals the proliferation of "out-house" statistics courses in the 1940-I965 era. In this paper an introductory course i n computer science will be defined as any cours e involving computer programming for which ther e is no prerequisite course in computer science. Table I lists introductory-level compute r science courses currently taught at the University of Western Ontario (total enrolment : 20,000) ; 60 percent of the students are taugh t by the Computer Science Department. Missin g from the table is a course, presently propose d by the Chemistry Department. The author has no reason to believ e that proliferation has been extreme at thi s university ; rather, it appears to be typica l of that experienced by publicly supported , full-service universities. The degree of centralization of th e teaching of computer science appears to var y among universities. In talking to some computer science educators one gathers the opinio n that progress is perceived to lie in th e direction of divestment by the department o f "service courses". The high course numbers assigned t o introductory computer science courses taugh t within the "softer" disciplines suggest s that course numbers may correlate inversel y with student I .Q. . This might be an interesting problem on which social scientist s could hone newly acquired computational skills. In one sense the proliferation of compute r science courses is more malignant than was th e metastasis of statistics : faculties and departments teaching computer science frequently set u p their own computer centres. And they cost mone y to build and operate. Table II lists the various computers a t work in and around this university. The total computing power adds up to about half that use d by Canada's second largest life insurance company . There is reason to suspect that th e machines are not equally loaded. There are both good and had feature s associated with the replication of facilities fo r teaching computer science. It creates jobs fo r teachers, programmers, and centre directors, mos t of which …