Welcome to the 42nd Design Automation Conference and the city of Anaheim! More than ever, DAC is the place where researchers and developers, industry and academia, exhibitors and their customers come to learn about the latest breakthroughs, the latest products, and the latest business deals in electronic design automation. 
 
In addition to the industry luminaries and the best and the brightest innovators, DAC has the highest density of customers who make buying decisions of any similar conference. The thousands of attendees -- system and chip designers, tool developers, analysts, executives, faculty, and students -- are a diverse group who make DAC the place to be, the one place to meet your customers and suppliers, your colleagues and competitors, your former students, employees, and managers! You will find others with common interests and concerns, learn about new ideas in the technical sessions and new products on the exhibit floor, and get a view of trends, challenges, and solutions in electronic design automation. Your participation is limited only by your time and stamina. 
 
This year's Tuesday keynote speaker is Bernard S. Meyerson, IBM Fellow, Vice President, and Chief Technologist of IBM's Systems and Technology Group, who will discuss the direction of design as scaling ends. Dr. Meyerson was named by EE Times as one of thirteen people "who are influencing the course of semiconductor development technology and taking it into realms that exceed the bounds set by the inventors of the transistor more than fifty years ago." On Thursday, Ronald A. Rohrer, Wilkoff Chair University Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University and a design automation entrepreneur, will discuss innovation in the EDA industry. Dr. Rohrer is a winner of the EDA Consortium Phil Kaufman Award and Corporate Vice President, Advanced Research and Development, Cadence Design Systems, Inc. 
 
The technical program this year was selected from 735 submissions, and the 74 members of the Technical Program Committee had to make difficult choices. The committee has produced a diverse technical program consisting of 154 papers in 40 sessions, plus nine special sessions and eight panels. The Panel Committee has put together these exciting panels as well as 18 events in the DAC Pavilion on the exhibit floor. The week is complemented by six tutorials on timely topics on Monday and Friday. System-level design, design for manufacturability, power reduction, and verification -- problems old and new -- form the core of the technical program. 
 
This year, in addition to Management Day on Tuesday, is DAC's first theme day, Wireless Wednesday, with a range of technical talks and panels, discussion on the exhibit floor in the DAC Pavilion, and the showcasing of wireless products and applications. The exhibit floor, using the integrated booth/suite layout introduced successfully last year, features over 230 companies, with 50 new exhibitors. The excitement of the DAC Pavilion, Monday's Happy Hour, and a "Wireless Walk" highlighting tools and applications, and, of course, the latest products, make the exhibits a key part of the conference. 
 
The efforts of many people go into making DAC the success it has been for over forty years as the premier design automation event for the entire community. The authors, speakers, and session chairs; the reviewers, session organizers, moderators, and panelists; the members of the DAC Executive Committee, Technical Program Committee, and Exhibitor Liaison Committee, all volunteers, deserve special thanks. MP Associates, Inc., conference and exhibit managers, continue to be unwaveringly focused on DAC's success. We are grateful for the support of our sponsors, ACM/SIGDA, IEEE/CASS/CANDE, and the EDA Consortium, and for the technical cooperation of the IEEE Solid State Circuits Society.