Proximity-based mobile social networks [1], which allow people to communicate with each other in a peer-to-peer fashion using their personal communication devices (e.g., smartphones), are getting increasingly popular. Communication in these kinds of networks is essentially contact-driven and requires nodes to employ efficient neighbor discovery protocols. Most current smartphones come with at least two wireless radios (i.e., Bluetooth and Wi-Fi), and both or either of them can be used for finding neighbors. But, as previous experiments (e.g., Mobiclique [2]) have shown, the energy cost of using Wi-Fi for neighbor discovery is prohibitive, and so most distributed mobile social networking applications are limited to the use of Bluetooth (e.g., Social Net [3]). However, the two radios differ greatly in terms of range. For Bluetooth, the usual range is 10 meters, while for Wi-Fi it is at least 100 meters. That means that when WiFi is not used for searching neighbors, a significant fraction of potential contacts remain undetected. To strike a balance between the two conflicting objectives of saving energy and discovering more neighbors, we propose a new scheme for finding distant neighbors through the high-power radio by leveraging the phenomenon of clustering. In a social setting, nodes often gather around different locations (e.g., classrooms, coffee-shops, etc), which results in the formation of small Bluetooth clusters. Based on this observation, we propose a new protocol that lets mobile nodes use their low-power radios to coordinate their highpower neighbor discovery duties so that near-by nodes take “turns” discovering neighbors through the Wi-Fi radio and thus share the load of long-range scanning. This approach significantly increases the discovery rate while decreasing the high energy cost that a node incurs when it performs discovery through its Wi-Fi radio completely on its own. To evaluate the feasibility of the protocol, we implemented it on a testbed of Android phones. We will demonstrate the effectiveness of our protocol on a network of smartphones equipped with both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi. The smartphones will be divided into clusters, where members within a cluster can reach each other only through Bluetooth, but members in different clusters will be able to reach one another with Wi-Fi. A simple social networking application will run on the phones to demonstrate the ben-