The United States National Science Foundation (NSF) supports a majority of US academic research in the Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) topic areas.  A long-time computing researcher herself, Dr. Margaret Martonosi is now serving a 4-year term leading the NSF CISE Directorate, and stewarding the CISE directorate’s $1B+ annual budget on behalf of research, education, workforce, and infrastructure funding in CISE topic areas and for science as a whole.  In this talk, she will discuss key themes for the field, how CISE is developing programmatic opportunities to advance research related to them, and also how CISE invests in cross-cutting people issues for the field as well.  More broadly, she will discuss CISE and NSF in the context of the global research efforts, and our approach to industry and international research partnerships. Across it all, she will note how the ATC/OSDI community can contribute to these efforts and priorities.

                    
          Margaret Martonosi, National Science Foundation
            
  
  
    Margaret Martonosi leads the US National Science Foundation's (NSF) Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE). With an annual budget of more than $1B, the CISE directorate at NSF has the mission to uphold the Nation's leadership in scientific discovery and engineering innovation through its support of fundamental research and education in computer and information science and engineering as well as transformative advances in research cyberinfrastructure. While at NSF, Dr. Martonosi is on leave from Princeton University where she is the H. T. Adams '35 Professor of Computer Science. Dr. Martonosi's research interests are in computer architecture and hardware-software interface issues in both classical and quantum computing systems. Dr. Martonosi is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).