In this presentation, a unique competency-based testing program which is used in the introductory computer science courses at Carnegie-Mellon University will be described. After discussing this master examination, its background at CMU and its educational justification, evidence about its validity and reliability in testing student acheivement will be discussed. Finally, some of the more pertinent experiences in the administration and evaluation of the masteries as they have developed over the past four years will be described. The mastery examination at CMU requires the students to complete a single programming task. It is administered on-line, and must be completed within a five-hour period. Problems are chosen at random, from a pool known to the students for a substantial period prior to the exam. We have attempted to standardize the degree of difficulty of the several versions of the examination. They share very similar functionality, and require similar data structures. Among them are a simple line editor, a monitor simulator, a payroll system, and a flight reservation system. Typically, student achievement in programming methods courses is measured by a variety of indicators, such as programming assignments, homework and written examinations. Certainly, if the students do, in fact, complete them without depending too heavily on others' help, programming assignments are useful indicators of their achievement. However, particularly in examination settings, explicit testing of students' actual programming abilities does seem to be neglected at best. We would like to be able to claim that the above educational justification provided the initial impetus for the mastery examination program at Carnegie-Mellon. However, there was another practical problem which we had to confront: namely that of widespread cheating on examinations. We suspect that such difficulties are all too common elsewhere as well. By requiring our students to complete a moderately difficult programming problem, in a limited period of time, in a secure computing environment, we think that we have reduced cheating markedly at our institution. On face validity grounds, one can make a reasonably convincing argument that these mastery examinations do accurately guage the students' abilities. We provide them with books, other reference materials, and on-line help facilities. While they are familiar with the questions beforehand, they are of an order of difficulty that makes it extremely unlikely for students to commit them to memory, certainly not for more than a marginally passing grade. Indeed, we think that this sort of exercise is a good indicator of …