Welcome to the proceedings of the 43rd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education, or SIGCSE 2012, where you will find the archival record of over one hundred papers as well as multiple other session formats that document the latest in computer science education: research, tool building, teaching, curriculum and philosophy. Reflecting our location in North Carolina's renowned Research Triangle, this year's conference features the three themes of "Teaching, Learning, and Collaborating" throughout the sessions. Teaching, learning, and collaborating occur inside and outside of the classroom, and among various combinations of students, academics, industry professionals, and others. 
 
We are pleased to announce the winners of the two annual SIGCSE awards. Professor Harold (Hal) Abelson of Massachusetts Institute of Technology will receive the SIGCSE award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education, and will provide Friday's keynote address. Jane Prey of Microsoft Research will accept the SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education Community and speak at our First Timer's Lunch. In addition, we've invited speakers to deliver two more keynote presentations. Frederick P. Brooks, Jr., from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will deliver Thursday's keynote address titled "The Teacher's Job is to Design Learning Experiences; not Primarily to Impart Information." Fernanda Viegas and Martin Wattenberg from Google's "Big Picture" visualization group will jointly address Saturday's luncheon with "Through the Looking Glass: Talking about the World with Visualization." 
 
Proposal type Paper Accepted 100 Received 289 Rate 35% 
 
Proposal type Panel/Special Session Accepted 24 Received 53 Rate 45% 
 
Proposal type Workshop Accepted 36 Received 78 Rate 46% 
 
Proposal type Poster Accepted 48 Received 109 Rate 44% 
 
Proposal type Birds of a Feather Accepted 36 Received 46 Rate 78% 
 
Symposium statistics are presented below. Many thanks to the authors, reviewers, and Program Committee members whose enormous and vital service generated this program. This year's program includes the usual wide selection of events, including the First-Timer's Lunch and Evening Reception on Thursday and the SIGCSE luncheon on Saturday. Our exhibit hall features a number of exhibitors showcasing the latest in hardware, software tools, textbooks and educational programs and research. We continue to offer accessibility at SIGCSE 2012 for the deaf and hard of hearing. 
 
We are excited about the variety of presymposium events that we will be offering. As of the press deadline for this overview, meetings on the following topics will occur on Wednesday: Teaching Open Source, Career Mentoring, SIGCAS Open Meeting, Teaching Ethics in Computer Science, and Computing Accreditation. Near the end of the symposium on Saturday, top undergraduate and graduate students will present their work at the ACM SIGCSE Student Research Competition, managed by Ann Sobel. SIGCSE 2012 will also see the return of robots through a new venue, "The SIGCSE Playground: Experience It!" Many thanks go to Jennifer Kay and Douglas Blank for organizing this event.