In response to pressures to reduce product lead times,manufacturing companies are increasingly aware of the need for someform of integration along the whole product chain. Engineeringtasks must be coordinated and data exchanged between the variousspecialised tools. An enterprise has two main tracks of informationflow, namely technical and managerial, and product data managementspans both tracks. On the technical track, applications are highlyspecialised supporting tasks such as product design (CAD) and theprogramming of numerically controlled machines (CAM). Generally,the various application systems on the technical track are referredto as CAx systems. CAx systems may not only differ in terms offunctionality but also in terms of the amount and type of datamanaged, the run-time environment and performance characteristics.For complete support of Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM),we must be able to integrate existing technical and administrativecomponent application systems. These component systems vary intheir data management support and many CAx systems store their datadirectly in files rather than in a database system. The issues arehow to describe the dependencies between these component systemsand ensure system-wide data consistency. A particularly difficultproblem is that of how to interface existing application systems insuch a way that their operation can be monitored and controlled anda global transaction scheme provided.
Integration must be achieved in a way that supports systemevolution in terms of the introduction and replacement ofapplication systems. This is particularly important given the trendtowards the notions of the extended enterprise and virtualfactories in which a particular product chain may span severalenterprises. Further, emerging legal statutes (especially inrelation to environmental factors) are resulting in changes to therequirements for product data management. Enterprise integrationmust be both flexible and dynamic. The best way of achieving thisis to integrate component systems by mans of a control layer whichcoordinates tasks based on explicit inter-system dependenciesamenable to both direct view and update.
Product Data Management systems (also known as EngineeringDatabases) have been developed for the integration of CAx systemsby managing product data centrally. One problem with a centralisedsystem controlling access to data is that its availability iscritical to the operation of all component systems. In an effort toovercome this, systems are being developed which replicate themetadata and data required for coordination.
Alternatively, coordination approaches have been proposed whichaim to maximise component subsystem autonomy and increase CIMsystem flexibility. These systems place less emphasis on datasharing and more emphasis on task coordination. The integrationeffort is minimised and only that information strictly essential tocoordination is managed centrally.