One of the interesting aspects of the first SIGCSE Technical Symposium was the discussion generated by the question of how large a gap there was between what Computer Science Departments were offering and the expectations of industry concerning computer science graduates. There definitely seemed to exist some differences. On the one hand the university seemed to be interested in turning out well-rounded students who were as familiar with basic principles and fundamental theoretical concepts in computer science as they were with programming techniques. On the other hand industry representatives seem to feel that the students did not have enough practical knowledge and had to be retrained upon entering the business world. The topic has been debated for some time. Therefore, the organizers of this Second SIGCSE Technical Symposium decided that a panel should be organized to discuss this issue.
 The following abstracts represent the main theses which will be elaborated on by the four representatives from industry who were invited to give 10-15 minute papers. After the presentation of these papers, Drs. Aaron Finerman and Peter Calingaert have been allotted 10-15 minutes each to comment on the ideas and topics presented in the papers. Since both Drs. Calingaert and Finerman have worked in industry, as well as in a university, their viewpoints will hopefully tie together the central themes of the panelists. This will help focus the ensuing discussion on the one or two key points which seem to be the primary cause of the gap between what industry sees as its needs and what the university perceives as well educated computer science graduates. Following these presentations, the panelists and the audience will have an opportunity to discuss the issues raised by the panelists. This format will allow anyone interested in participating in the conference to have a chance to listen to industry's point of view on this very important matter as well as to contribute his own thoughts during the discussion session. This issue has been informally discussed for some time. This panel was organized in an attempt to give formal recognition to the problems. The dialog among university/industry representatives will hopefully open communication channels that will bridge this gap.