This experiment examined the influence of the style of thecomputer user interface on the extent to which performance wasdecreased by task interruption. Performance on data entry of apersonnel database was compared using two different styles ofinterfaces, under three different forms of interruption. Tensubjects were given a graphical user interface with a mouse andscreen buttons; and ten were given a character-based interface withtab and function keys. Interruptions came at unexpected times. Eachsubject was interrupted three times, once with each form ofinterruption: telephone call, visitor, and on-screen message.During each interruption, the subject was asked to answer a simplequestion. The number of fields entered minus the number of fieldsin error, per minute, was measured during the two-minutepost-interruption period. Eye motion data was analyzed in terms ofthe amount of time and the average durations of eye fixations onthe screen. An exit questionnaire solicited the subjects'perceptions of their performance.
Compared to the control, the screen interruption was disruptive,the telephone interruption was not, and the walk-in visitorinterruption produced intermediate performance. Performance wasworse in the first minute than in the second minute immediatelyfollowing the interruptions. Lower performance was directly relatedto looking more at the screen. The duration of the interruption wasweakly correlated to the performance. Subjects' perceptions oftheir performance did not correlate with performance measures.
The disruptive effect of the screen interruption compared to thelack of disruption after the telephone interruption was a surprise.This result is contrary to the commonly held belief that telephoneinterruptions are a problem to computer users. It may be importantto avoid disruption caused by screen windows popping up in designof multi-window user interfaces. Trends in office automation havethe screen being used for more and more functions, with demands onscreen displays being further aggravated by information availablethrough integrated networks.
The disruption of the screen interruption may be due to theabruptness of the on-set of the interruption which prohibited thesubject from completing the current action. The message box lockedout the main task until the subject responded to the question. Thisdiffered from the onset of the walk-in and telephone interruptionswhich did not lock out interaction with the main task. Anotherpossible explanation for the disruption of the screen interruptioncompared to the telephone interruption may be the similarity insense modality. This work is seen as preliminary to furtherstudy.