Engagement is a key factor in the process of teaching and learning any subject. Teachers have been facing this problem while teaching computer science at any level; we will be focusing on trying to engage college students from non-computer science majors. Solving problems with programming is a course taught to several majors varying from chemical engineering, through mechanical, physics, electronics, food and even innovation engineering all in the same class. Therefore, we decided to divide the class profiling the students into two roles: a) Mechanics, which showed proficiency on mathematics and critical thinking among the class and b) Pilots, who showed some gaps on their skills. Both profiles will develop critical thinking, problem solving and algorithmic thinking by the end of the semester. Gamification as an educational trend refers not just to the use of games mechanics, but also to the development of game environments in order to improve motivation, concentration, effort, and loyalty among other positive values common to all gamers. Gamification is seen as a powerful strategy to influence and motivate people. The objectives of applying this kind of trend on a class are: The transformation of class activities into challenges, foster leadership of the participants, develop collaborative teams, reward efficiency and effort in the development of activities and foster meaningful learning experience. Through the completion of the objectives, students will develop the afore mentioned skills and the following competences: Logical thinking, ability to follow complex procedures, pattern recognition, use of technology and communication, collaborative work and problem solving. The poster will display our findings so far, since we are running the pilot test on this project. We will be assessing the feelings among students with a survey, and present the data analysis derived from the experience, and we will compare the results to a group that is taking the same class with a normal approach.