INTRODUCTION Most of the current neural networks use models which have only tenuous connections to the biological neural systems on which they purport to be based t and negligible input from the neuroscience/biophysics communities. This paper describes an ongoing effort which approaches neural net research in a program of close collaboration of neuros-c i ent i sts and eng i neers. The effort is des i gned to elucidate associative learning in the marine snail Hermissenda crassicornis t in which Pavlovian conditioning has been observed. Learning has been isolated in the four neuron network at the convergence of the v i sua 1 and vestibular pathways in this animal t and biophysical changes t specific to learning t have been observed in the membrane of the photoreceptor B cell. A basic charging capacitance model of a neuron is used and enhanced with biologically plausible mechanisms that are necessary to replicate the effect of learning at the cellular level. These mechanisms are non-linear and are t primarilYt instances of second order control systems (e.g. t fatigue t modul at i on of membrane res i stance t time dependent rebound)t but also include shunting and random background fi ri ng. The output of the model of the four-neuron network di sp 1 ays changes in the temporal vari at i on of membrane potential similar to those observed in electro-physiological measurements. Alkon 1 showed that Hermissenda crassicornis, a marine snail, is capable of associating two stimuli in a fashion which exhibits all the characteristics of classical Pavlovian conditioning (acquisition, retention, extinction , and savings)2. In these experiments, Hermissenda were trained to associate a visual with a vestibular stimulus. In its normal environment, Hermissenda moves toward light; in turbulence, the animal increases the area of contact of its foot with the surface on which it is moving, reducing its forward velocity. Alkon showed that the snail can be conditioned to associate these stimuli through repeated exposures to ordered pairs (light followed by turbulence). When the snails are exposed to light (the unconditioned stimulus) followed by turbulence (the conditioned stimulus) after varying time intervals, the snails transfer to the light their unconditioned response to turbulence (increased area of foot contact); i.e., when presented with light alone, they respond with an increased area of foot contact. The effect of such training lasts for several weeks. It was further shown that the learning was maximized …