Comparisons of the two methodologies clf testing and formal verification (mathematical p~oof of correctness of software or hardware), and suggestions for their cooperative or complementary use have been made extensively, for example, by ~Geller, Gerhart, Hamlet, and others. The defects of one methodology in a given situation can potentially be offset by the advantages of the other when both are incorporated in a unified automated system. There are two subgoals: 1) Make the results of such a unified system just as rigorously determined, and as precise, as the results of the verification system alone, but allow for quantitative lower bounds for correctness when proofs of absolute correctness are not attainable. 2) Make such a unified system user-interactive in the same " style " as existing semi-automated verification systems. We call this lower bound on correctness a " cor-rectness degree. " For the sake of simplicity in this abstract, think of it as the probability y that an input (or computation) yields a correct result. This probability is based on an assumed distribution on the set of inputs (or computations); this can be adjusted to fit the environment in which the system will be used. Similar definitions have been used by Cheung and more recently by Romanik and by Woit, among others. We establish a framework in which to explore (see the full paper) theoretical problems whose solution is necessary for a future implementation of *This work has benefitted from discussions with Telis Menas, Permission to copy without fee all or part of this materfal is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association of Computing Machinery. To COPY otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee the above two goals. The practicality of such an approach remains to be seen, but the intent is that such formal testing be used when " pure " formal verification, which is to be preferred for maximal assurance, is not possible or practical. There are three new categories of capabilities that such a unified system should have in addition to its pure proof capabilities: 1) It should be able to test and justify numerical degrees of correctness for atomic system fragments (modules.) 2) It should be able to combine testing and verification results …