People communicate primarily by two medea: acoustic-the spoken word; and visual N the written word. It is therefore natural chac people would expect their com-,nications with machines Co likewise use Chess two modes. To a considerable extent, speech is probably the most natural of the natural-language modes. ~ence, a fascination exists with machines thac respond to spoken commands with synthetic speech responses to create a natural-language interactive discourse. However, although vast amounts of research and development effort have been expended in the search for systems that understand human speech and respond with synthetic speech, the goal of the perfect system remains a~ elusive as ever. Syste ms for producing natural-sounding speech for large vocabularies with unrestricted gr-w.-tical structures and for recognizing spoken speech for large vocabularies with unlimited gr-~-Cical structures and any humber of talkers are still beyond the scats of linguistics and computer science and technology. Given the problems in the speech domain, ic is not surprising Chat most interactions between people and machines are in the visual mode frequently using alphanumeric keyboards as input and textual display as output. Such visual terminals are already in fairly widespread use in industry and are used for a variety of applications including computer progr-n~ing, text editing, and database access. The telephone allows speech celecoa~nications over distance between people. Future visual terminals for the home and businesses will allow textual celecom-,nicacions between people. These visual terminals could also be used co telecommunicate with machines in a way Chat is presently difficult using the telephone and speech. ViewdaCa, or videocex, systems are promised soon for the home and will allow database access and transactions with machines and textual messages between people. Some viewdata systems use elaborate tree searches Co reach the desired frame of information. Some people believe that tree searches will be "unnatural" for many users and some other mere-natural language will be ueeded to search and access these database sysCeme. One conclusion is Chac the future will see mere choices in mode for teleco~manicacions between people and with machines. The choice of which alternate made will probably be dependent upon the specific application. For example, textual messages might be both easier to enter by keyboard and Co read on a CRT screen than speaking to a recording machine and listening Co a recorded message. However, social chatting might be best over the telephone. However, arranging a dace with a stranger might …