In the Spring of 1987, a delegation of professionalsspecializing in computers and education visited the People's Republic of China to participate in bilateral technical exchanges with their Chinese counterparts. This exchange was coordinated through the People to People International Citizen Ambassador Program. The delegates visited primary schools, middle schools and universities The "cultural revolution" of 1966-76 not only stagnated China's economy but denied the value of knowledge and schooling to the Chinese people. This resulted in a large gap in education between China and other countries and a generation of young people whose education was disrupted. population growth added to an already large illiterate population. It is against this background that China has struggled to improve computer education. China is determined to catch up with the Western world. This is not an easy task in light of their history, overpopulation and illiteracy. Computer Education in the People's Republic of China is primarily focused on applied technology, especially in software development. Funding is limited and hardware and software sources are restricted. Typical resources are mini and!rmicro systems of United States and Japanese manufacture and, in most cases, lags state of the art by about five years. Also, China now protects a fledgling microcomputer manufacturing industry via stiff import tariffs which further limits access to newer workstation technology. The real facilities problems will occur as university computer science curricula are enhanced to'include more comprehensive courses in software engineering, expert systems and data communications. Richard Little China is introducing computer technology at all educational levels. Many programs in computer education have been developed for primary and middle school children as well as for undergraduate and graduate students. A description of various events and lessons that were observed during visits to about 10 primary and middle schools will be presented. The university structure in China differs a great deal from that in the United States with regard to admission criteria, supporting and related institutions and campus life. These factors as well as specific curriculum and research areas in The undergraduate curriculum in computer science, the research areas in computer science, the organization of Chinese life and the needs of the Chinese society affect the way in which computers are used. The implications for graduate study or work in the computing field will be discussed. University professionals in China have enjoyed increasing social status since the end of the "Cultural Revolution". When the Chinese Ministry …