We are pleased to present the program of the SIGMETRICS 2005 conference. The program covers a wide spectrum of performance-related topics, including peer-to-peer networks, traffic measurement and classification, bandwidth sharing and scheduling policies, network performance measurements, caching and file systems, traffic estimation and topology inference, wireless networks, network and server performance evaluation. Overall, the program features a broad mix of methodological contributions and modeling studies, balanced with a diverse range of applications of performance evaluation models and methods. 
 
The paper selection process was highly competitive. A total of 237 submissions were received, of which 31 papers were accepted for presentation at the conference, while an additional 20 papers were selected for poster presentation. The papers were selected after a rigorous review process based on their originality, technical quality and relevance to the conference. For all papers, at least three independent reviews were sought from the Program Committee, whose ranks were filled with 57 established experts representing 12 countries and a variety of backgrounds in academia, industry and government institutions. For many papers, additional reviews were obtained from external specialists, resulting in a total of over 800 reviews. The final paper selection took place at the Program Committee meeting which was held at Columbia University on January 21 and 22, 2005. Throughout the entire process, every effort was made to avoid any (potential) conflict-of-interest situations, in particular during the discussions at the Program Committee meeting. 
 
A special subcommittee decided on the following two awards: "Coupon Replication Systems" by Laurent Massoulie, Milan Vojnovic (Microsoft Research) as the conference's best paper, and "A Network Service Curve Approach for the Stochastic Analysis of Networks" by Florin Ciucu, Almut Burchard, Jorg Liebeherr (University of Virginia) as the best student paper. 
 
Jussara Almeida and Thomas Bonald did an excellent job publicizing the conference. We thank Martin Arlitt, Anirban Mahanti, and Camille Sinanan for their highly capable work on finance, proceedings, and registration/local arrangements, respectively. Leana Golubchik, SIGMETRICS Chair, gave valuable advice and support at crucial moments. We received able and professional assistance from ACM Headquarters staff members, including Caryn Chan, Irene Frawley, Adrienne Griscti, Maritza Nichols, and Jessica Wilmers. Lisa Tolles, the Proceedings Coordinator at Sheridan Printing, provided dedicated and careful work on the proceedings production. Sue Williamson designed conference promotional material, with photos courtesy of the Banff/Lake Louise Tourism Bureau. The Banff Park Lodge personnel, especially Valerie Hunter-Prenger and Ann Haagaard, assisted with conference planning, and our student volunteers helped make it all happen. 
 
The main credit for the program obviously goes to the authors for contributing their finest work, as well as the tutorial speakers and the workshop organizers for their excellent contributions. We also wish to express our deep gratitude to Urs Hoelzle from Google for agreeing to give the keynote address. The Program Committee members and external reviewers made further vital contributions, lending their expertise, spending many diligent hours reviewing papers, and braving a January blizzard to attend the Program Committee meeting in New York City. We sincerely thank them for their tremendous dedication and efforts in ensuring a high-quality program. We particularly owe the members of the awards committee Thomas Bonald, Ed Coffman (chair), Arif Merchant, Philippe Nain, and Y.C. Tay for their selfless exertions in performing such a demanding task. We further thank the General Co-Chairs Derek Eager and Carey Williamson for their constant guidance, support and confidence. We are grateful to Leana Golubchik (Chair of SIGMETRICS) and several previous Program Chairs for sharing their experiences and insights. We are indebted to Sophie Majewski, Vishal Misra, Erich Nahum, and Dan Rubenstein for making the logistic arrangements for the Program Committee meeting. We applaud the Tutorial Co-Chairs Kimberly Keeton and Vishal Misra for setting up an excellent tutorial program, the Proceedings Chair Anirban Mahanti for assembling the proceedings, and the Publicity Co-Chairs Thomas Bonald and Jussara Almeida for their great job in publicizing the conference. Special thanks to Matthew Andrews, Bruce Shepherd, and Phil Whiting for contributing code to the paper assignment algorithm. Finally, big thanks to H.M. Law who served as webmaster for the conference website and administered the submission management system. Without his tireless efforts, it would have been impossible to handle hundreds of papers and reviews.