It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 13th ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems (SenSys 2015). We hope you enjoy this conference that attracts a diverse set of attendees from both academia and industry and is a leading venue for publications and idea exchange on networked sensing. SenSys this year introduces a highly selective, single-track program featuring systems issues of sensors and sensor-enabled smart systems, broadly defined. It provides an ideal venue to address research challenges facing the design, development, deployment, use, and fundamental limits of these systems. 
 
The paper review process this year was highly selective. Out of 132 high quality submissions, only 27 were accepted for publication and presentation as full papers, yielding an acceptance rate around 20.45%. Submitted papers underwent a rigorous multistage review process. First, all submissions were checked for compliance and for general quality and topic match. Those not meeting conference criteria were administratively rejected without review. Papers surviving this stage were assigned three reviews in the first stage of the peer review process. At the conclusion of this stage, those papers that none of the reviewers recommended acceptance were rejected. The rest were assigned two additional reviews, thus totaling 5 reviews per paper. An online discussion phase then ensued, resulting in recommending 59 papers for discussion at the in-person physical PC meeting. At the conclusion of the PC meeting, a total of 27 papers were recommended for acceptance to the conference. All recommended papers were assigned shepherds to help ensure that the authors produce a final manuscript that satisfactorily addresses reviewer comments. All shepherded papers were ultimately accepted to the conference. 
 
Our program this year covers an exciting set of topics including energy, localization, systems, networking, information services and object/activity recognition. It also includes a poster/demo session, a panel, and two distinguished keynote speakers: Professor Raj Rajkumar from CMU, and Dr. Hendrik Hamann from IBM Research.