PIKM 2007 is the first Ph.D. Workshop in CIKM. The goal of this workshop is to encourage Ph.D. students to present their dissertation research at a relatively early stage. The targeted students are those with a focus in any of the CIKM research tracks, i.e., databases, information retrieval and knowledge management. Interdisciplinary work across the three tracks is particularly encouraged. 
 
It is noticed that a broad range of topics are addressed in CIKM related to various issues in databases and information systems, information retrieval and semantic web, knowledge management and data mining. The CIKM conference with its confluence several research tracks provides an excellent opportunity for learning about the latest developments in the respective fields. It provides a good environment for a Ph.D. workshop where graduate students can expose their research early in their academic career. Particularly, such a workshop encourages further studies across the three major fields addressed by CIKM: databases, information retrieval and knowledge management. 
 
The PIKM workshop enables graduate students to present their dissertation proposals and / or ongoing research on their dissertation sub-problems. It gives them an opportunity to get feedback on their work from researchers worldwide. The reviewers' comments help them assess and possibly revise their work. Selected papers are published in the workshop proceedings. This gives considerable recognition to the work of the students allowing them to showcase their research. Moreover, students attending the workshop get an opportunity to critique the work of their peers. This promotes an open forum for discussion similar to that in a doctoral consortium. 
 
A wide range of topics on any area in databases, information retrieval and knowledge management is presented at the PIKM workshop. The areas of interest are similar to those at the CIKM main conference. 
 
Although this workshop has been the first of its kind, we received around 40 submissions which exceeded our expectations. After a tough review process 20 papers have been selected for publication in PIKM.