In conventional level set methods, the slope of the level set function needs to be well controlled to maintain the numerical stability during the topology optimization process. One common solution is to regularize the level set function to be a signed distance function, which is usually achieved by periodically implementing the so called re-initialization scheme to force the level set function to gain the desired signed distance property. However, the re-initialization scheme will bring some unwanted drawbacks to the optimization process, such as zero level set drifting, time consuming etc. In addition, re-initialization is usually implemented outside the optimization loop, which will cause convergence issues. In this paper, a distance regularization functional is introduced to the structural topology optimization objective functional to ensure the signed distance property of the level set function near the structure boundaries. This functional can also keep the level set function to be constant-value at positions far away from the structural boundaries. The radial basis function (RBF) based parameterization technique together with the mathematical programming are utilized to improve the potential capability of handling multiple constraints for the topology optimization. The combination of these two techniques makes the level set based topology optimization be capable of handling complicated multi-constrained problems with higher numerical efficiency, leaving no compromise to multiple drawbacks. To demonstrate the validity of the proposed scheme, benchmark examples on minimum compliance structural optimization are employed. This type of problem is computed by the conventional level set method with the introduced distance regularization functional, the RBF based parametric level set and at last, the distance regularized RBF based parametric level set separately to demonstrate their differences. 1 Address all correspondence to this author. SUNY Stony Brook. Department of Mechanical Engineering. Tel:+1-(631)632-2309 Fax: +1-(631)632-8544. E-mail address: shikui.chen@stonybrook.edu (S. Chen)