The Object Oriented (OO) technology has a lot of benefits to offer in the field of software development. The technology is promising in terms of increased productivity of developers, software reusability and maintainability. These benefits become significant in large and complex software projects. Communication Software projects being inherently large and complex, could reap the benefits of this technology substantially. At Information Communication Institute of Singapore (ICIS), we recognized this potential and introduced the OO approach in our Master's programme curriculum in 1993. Communication Software Systems are event driven in nature and exhibit dynamic behavior. Also, the very vital activity of identifying objects is not straightforward since problems in this domain cannot be easily related to the real world. Not many methodologies addressed these aspects in desired depth. As a result, one of our greatest difficulties was to conceive a suitable methodology for Communications Software development and teach it to the students. In the course of our teaching, we also had to face the challenge of moving from the structured approach of software development to the OO approach. It is certainly a paradigm shift and requires a new way of thinking and approaching a problem. One of our challenges was in driving home the OO perceptions and techniques into the minds of students particularly groomed in the functional approach of Communication Software development. Due to the abstract nature of the Communication Software domain, these challenges were compounded. This paper shares our experiences in conception, preparation and delivery of an OO module in our curriculum. It describes the difficulties encountered in preparation of the module and how the problems were solved. This paper also discusses the various teaching techniques used in teaching the OO Concepts, an Transactions on Information and Communications Technologies vol 10, © 1995 WIT Press, www.witpress.com, ISSN 1743-3517