Single System Image, as a distributed operating system for nodes in computer 
clusters has become a widely adopted clustering solution due to its complete 
transparency of the resource management and ease of use. An important design 
consideration for this environment is the load allocation and balancing which is 
usually handled by an automatic process migration daemon. Thus, the 
implementation of such mechanism becomes an important design consideration in 
the distributed operating system. 
There is an essential need for a benchmark framework for the Single System Image 
clusters due to the wide range of implementation and the need for identifying the 
performance and behaviour of the system. The benchmark framework will enable the 
researchers to investigate both relative behaviour and performance of the Single 
System Image clusters, as well as provides the ability to compare such systems. In this work, a carefully designed benchmark framework had been proposed to study 
and evaluate the performance of the load balancing single system image. The 
performance metrics, which takes into account the speed, nodes, network, and 
behaviour of the system, were formulated. The benchmark framework allows the 
determination of the performance degradation factors associated with system 
implementation and configuration. This framework has been utilized to assess the 
performance characteristics of an existing and successful Open Source load 
balancing SSI system, OpenMosix. The benchmark framework provides an 
understanding of how the SSI system responds under varying conditions and 
manages to characterize the limitation of the information dissemination algorithm of 
OpenMosix. The information dissemination daemon had also been improved. The 
performance of the improved strategy had been validated by comparing it with the 
original system. Finally, the results from the tests were combined into a single figure 
of the performance behaviour. 
The experimental results obtained from the benchmark framework showed that the 
numbers of nodes affect the performance of the SSI cluster; this could be regarded as 
an important factor of performance decaying. The number of nodes can affect the 
performance by adding extra costs including, but not limited to, network traffic, load 
balancing time, and overhead. The performance of any SSI cluster can be enhanced 
by improving any or all of the above factors. The improved load balancing strategy 
shows a visible performance gain with more than five nodes. At eight nodes, a gain 
of nearly 50 seconds runtime, 16.13 speedup, and 12.27 % efficiency have been 
successfully achieved.