Welcome to the 2011 ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on Information-Centric Networking (ICN 2011). The development of ICN concepts is one of the significant results of different international Future Internet research activities. In such approaches, the principal paradigm is not host-to-host communication as in the current Internet architecture. Instead, an increasing demand for highly scalable and efficient distribution of content has motivated the development of architectures that focus on information objects, their properties, and receiver interest in the network to achieve efficient and reliable distribution of such objects. 
 
We have organized this workshop to bring researchers from different projects and initiatives together and to advance the state of research of this still relatively young networking research direction. The call for papers attracted 50 submissions from Asia, Europe and the United States, covering different topics from ICN architectures to specific topics such as naming, security, transport protocols and socio-economic factors. The number and the general quality of the received submissions are a promising indication for the commitment and the level of activity that the networking research community is currently investing into ICN. 
 
With the help of an excellent technical program committee of international researchers, we were able to select 12 high-quality papers for the final workshop program that, as we believe, address important current research topics in the fields and are suitable to create interesting and fruitful discussions. In addition we are able to gather renowned experts representing different current ICN research approaches for a panel discussion at the workshop that is expected to further stimulate discussions on ICN research directions and specific design alternatives. We hope that the workshop proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for researchers and developers in the field and that the discussions at the workshop will be fruitful for establishing ICN as a major networking research topic.