In the recent years, software development has become larger in scale and more complicated. Furthermore, development with faster delivery and lower cost is required, thus the software development environment is becoming more and more complex. Accordingly, companies seek high potential students in universities who have a practical sense. The information engineering department of Shibaura Institute of Technology provides classes that adopt a more practical approach to software development so that students can obtain knowledge and skills necessary for software development. However, as class hours assigned for learning software engineering are not sufficient, a support system that enables students to practice outside the classroom or school is required. This support system should have work such that it enables each member belonging to the same group to collectively perform tasks just like in the classroom. In order to solve this problem, the authors developed EtUDE [1][2], the group exercise support environment for software development. Although group exercise helps to reduce the burden of instructing compared to individual exercise, it is difficult to offer instructions that meet the individual's needs. However, it is the goal of the exercise-based classes to accomplish the obtainment of knowledge and skills for software development according to each student's level. Therefore, the authors developed the group exercise support environment for software development, EtUDE which features various functions necessary for group exercise support as well as the function that detects learners who do not benefit from the group exercise and need individual instruction. With this, the software development exercise in more practical form will be available, and at the same time, it is made possible to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for software development according to each student's level. This essay presents the overview of EtUDE system and the outcome of the application of the system.