As the core foundation of web mapping, each geographic object (geo-object), such as a traffic sign, plays a vital role in navigation and intelligent driving. Determining how to obtain the latest high-precision geo-object information is a classic topic in updating road databases. Benefiting from the cost-effective attribute and availability of the positioning equipment and camera, the vision-based update pattern is becoming increasingly popular in the industry. Generally speaking, the road database update mainly includes three phases: geo-object recognition, localization, and change detection. Previous change detection strategies are mainly performed by comparing the historical road information (i.e., geo-object type and position) with the new geographic data of geo-objects collected from the street-view imagery. However, limited by the localization precision of the positioning equipment and the discriminative power of the vanilla differential-based method, the accuracy, recall, and efficiency of previous systems for geo-object change detection are greatly impaired. In addition, the artificially prescribed production standards make the geo-object position in the map data deviate from its position in the real world, as well as some geo-objects do not need to be updated (e.g., temporary speed limit), which further yields many false-positive detections and significantly increases the labor costs of existing systems. To address these challenges, we propose a novel framework called DuARUS for automatic geo-object change detection with street-view imagery. In this paper, we mainly focus on automatic geo-object localization and change detection. Specifically, for geo-object localization, we propose a two-stage, integrated localization algorithm based on image matching and monocular depth estimation. Furthermore, to achieve automatic change detection, vision-based representation learning and scene understanding strategies are introduced to build a large-scale geo-object semantic map, which can provide sufficient multimodal information support for change detection. Based on such artful modeling, we recast the complicated, labor-based change detection problem as a vanilla binary classification task, which is a robust and efficient strategy that contributes to resolving this problem. By combining these operations, we construct an industrial-grade, fully automatic production system for road database updates. Extensive experiments conducted on large-scale, real-world datasets from Baidu Maps demonstrate the superiority and effectiveness of the system. Moreover, this system has already been deployed in production at Baidu Maps since July 2020, handling 96% of automatic road database updates. DuARUS improves the annual update mileage from millions to tens of millions, and it achieves weekly updates.