TLS certificate pinning is a security mechanism used by applications (apps) to protect their network traffic against malicious certificate authorities (CAs), in-path monitoring, and other methods of TLS tampering. Pinning can provide enhanced security to defend against malicious third-party access to sensitive data in transit (e.g., to protect sensitive banking and health care information), but can also hide an app's personal data collection from users and auditors. Prior studies found pinning was rarely used in the Android ecosystem, except in high-profile, security-sensitive apps; and, little is known about its usage on iOS and across mobile platforms. In this paper, we thoroughly investigate the use of certificate pinning on Android and iOS. We collect 5,079 unique apps from the two official app stores: 575 common apps, 1,000 popular apps each, and 1,000 randomly selected apps each. We develop novel, cross-platform, static and dynamic analysis techniques to detect the usage of certificate pinning. Thus, our study offers a more comprehensive understanding of certificate pinning than previous studies. We find certificate pinning as much as 4 times more widely adopted than reported in recent studies. More specifically, we find that 0.9% to 8% of Android apps and 2.5% to 11% of iOS apps use certificate pinning at run time (depending on the aforementioned sets of apps). We then investigate which categories of apps most frequently use pinning (e.g., apps in the "finance" category), which destinations are typically pinned (e.g., first-party destinations vs those used by third-party libraries), which certificates are pinned and how these are pinned (e.g., CA vs leaf certificates), and the connection security for pinned connections vs unpinned ones (e.g., the use of weak ciphers or improper certificate validation). Lastly, we investigate how many pinned connections are amenable to binary instrumentation to reveal the contents of their connections; for those that are, we analyze the data sent over pinned connections to understand what is protected by pinning.