This paper proposes a necessary and sufficient number of 18 geometrical parameters allowing to describe the design manifold of the Star topological class, i.e., all geometries of manipulators having the same topology and mobility as the Y-Star parallel manipulator. The isotropic constraints are then applied on this manifold in order to define the constraint manifold of isotropic designs, i.e., those having isotropic Jacobian matrices at their home position. This constraint manifold is of dimension 11 and greatly facilitates the design of isotropic manipulators in this topological class. NOMENCLATURE A B Frames attached to body A and B. Ai Bi Attachment points of leg i on body A and B. Mi Attachment point of leg i along the screw axis i. p Position vector of the origin of B in A . R 3 3 rotation matrix from A to B . ai Position vector of Ai in A . bi Position vector of Bi in B . ei Unit vector along the screw axis i. fi Unit vector from Mi toward Bi in A . mi Position vector of Bi relative to Mi in A when qi 1 0. qi Controlled and measured displacement of Mi along ei. li Leg length, i.e., the distance between points Mi and Bi. Address all correspondence to this author. INTRODUCTION As shown in Fig.1, the Y-Star parallel manipulator (Hervé, 1991) allows 3D translations of the end-effector (EE) using three motorized worm screws acting in parallel. In general, parallel manipulators are particularly interesting because they possess complementary characteristics to serial manipulators. The former can be used in situations where the characteristics of latter does not satisfy the application requirements. The design of parallel manipulators is a complex activity involving many technical and creative behaviors. The designer must evaluate the capacity of each potential design to meet the application requirements. Among others, the dexterity (Salisbury, 1982), i.e., the capacity of the manipulator to produce an equal motion in all directions from an equal motion of its actuators, is a very interesting property, because the manipulator exhibits, at this state, its best kinematic performances. Unfortunately, this property depends on both the manipulator posture and design, and hence, only a few designs can reached isotropy at only one, or a few, posture(s), because this constraint has been included within the design process. A genetic algorithm has succeeded to produce designs of Star-like parallel manipulators using three geometric parameters allowing to generalize the relative orientation of the three worm screws (Tremblay, 1999). However, this generalization does not describe all the geometries of this topology and mobility of the EE. In fact, the three worm screws do not need to intersect at a point in order to maintain the translational mobility of the EE, but can have three distinct common perpendiculars. In this paper, we propose such a set of geometric parameters together with the constraints allowing to obtain isotropic designs. 1 Copyright © 2001 by ASME