According to national fitness knowledge and theory, combine module theory and Internet technology designed national fitness network consultation system. This paper makes explanation on design ideas, technology crucial, module and function design, working example of the system. This system can assess body functions,give health and body building knowledge treating plan, sport and body building prescription, provide Internet platform for all the sports participants scientific body training.So the system has important practice and promotion values. National Physical Fitness and health is a state guarantee of continuous development, social development, physical level and an important indicator of the degree of civilization, is the key to our construction of sports power. Party and government have always attached great importance to people's health, the State Council in 1995 promulgated the "National Fitness Program" in 2009, promulgated the "National Health Bill", and continue to expand the work of the national physical testing are the people provide health protection. However, due to economic levels, social conditions, health awareness of the constraints in the implementation of regulations and outline the process there have been some problems, many people on too few knowledge about sports, they do not know how to exercise, not a scientific and rational exercise, affect training effect. Therefore, it is necessary to use network technology combined with the fitness guide, so that the masses for different fitness needs more convenient to search, consulting, to achieve a reasonable, effective, science and fitness purposes. To this end we have developed a "National Fitness Network Consulting System" (National Fitness Network Consultation System), hereinafter referred to as NFNCS system. Research Objects and Methods 1.1 Research Objects The research objects of NFNCS system include the fitness network resource library construction, network consulting system design and development, physical function evaluation, counseling and exercise prescription, system maintenance personnel and the services and consultants people from all walks of life. 1.2 Research Methods 1.2.1 Literature Study The theoretical basis is established based on collecting, sorting, and analyzing texts of relevant information from books, newspapers, audio-visual documents and internet. 1.2.2 Survey and Interviews a. network survey: survey through the internet b. social survey: issuing questionnaire surveys to possible users International Conference on Information Science and Computer Applications (ISCA 2013) © 2013. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 167 c. interviews: interviewing specialists experts, scholars and professors d. visits:members of the research team visiting different populations 1.2.3 Network Design and Software Development The network and software of NFNCS system require the use of computer programming, and the development of appropriate network system and software. Its functions should concentrate on consultants’ need, and meet the demand of consultation, function, technology and system, using the C++ method, an object-oriented way, with Visual Studio VC6.0 and ASP 3.0 for development. 1.2.4 Test Feedbacks When the NFNCS system is finished, we have tested it on sports administration and universities network, and widely soliciting opinions from users, sports, fitness experts and web developers to made some advices and improvement. Development of the NFNCS System NFNCS system design starting point is to solve our lack of fitness instructors, better to raise the masses of sports knowledge, training interests, to develop good exercise habits, to help them learn science and enhance the physical fitness, disease prevention promote the function of individual development. Build fitness network advisory system is to understand the needs of our national sports and physical status, based on data obtained in the field based on the Internet to establish a relatively complete fitness resource library and counseling, evaluation index system. The NFNCS system under the development platform of Visual Studio VC6.0 and ASP 3.0 have the following advantages. It is a program based on the universal language which can build a powerful web application program. It puts the program on the server, and compiles the program when the sever runs for the first time, thus improving the efficiency. The NFNCS system is very powerful and adaptive, for it is programmed in many kinds of languages, and now it supports C#, VB and Jscript. The System makes such trivial tasks as questionnaire submission, client authentication, distribution system and configuration of the web sites much simpler. The System programming uses a character-based, grading configuration system, in which the configuration information is stored in a simple text, and it does not need the local administrator tools, making the server environment and application setting work more easily. It also takes it into consideration that administrators can define plug-in module in their own codes. 2.1 Construction and Systematic Analysis of Resource Database On the basis of the relevant content and data analysis of fitness knowledge and guidance, combined with the international and domestic relevant research efforts, using object-oriented approach, the “class” and “object” of the network consultation and management system and its functions and interrelations have been researched. The resources database can be classified into such kinds as common knowledge and methods, functional level, movement-based, exercise goals, exercise programs, exercise prescription, case studies, under each of which there is a more specific second directory. 2.2 Design and Development of the System Based on the collection and systematic analysis, the system modules have been reasonably arranged; and the “class” and “object” of the module have been refined; its operation and attribute, and state changes, the interaction between objects have been analyzed. The study focuses on how to establish a user-friendly and humanized operation system, on how to process data and models, on