It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 3rd ACM International Workshop on Hot Topics in Planet-Scale Measurement -- HotPlanet'11. This year's workshop is motivated by the fact that successfully researching, designing and building new mobile, ad-hoc, mesh and opportunistic networking systems and algorithms requires access to large-scale data on human mobility, encounter, and social network patterns. Unfortunately, the wireless and mobile research communities lack such data, with typical human contact traces consisting of less than 100 nodes. We believe that large-scale datasets are important, not only in communication network design, but also for fundamental study in other academic disciplines, e.g., epidemiology, urban planning, and social science. Complex networks research has flourished since 1989 when the first large Internet (and later WWW) datasets became available. To achieve similar improvements in mobile networking and related fields, large-scale, and ideally planet-scale, datasets must be collected and made available. 
 
Following two successful editions of the workshop at ACM MobiSys 2009 and 2010, the third HotPlanet workshop will not only challenge the community to collect large-scale human mobility traces but also to propose novel mobility data processing and knowledge discovery techniques. 
 
Our program this year features a keynote by Professor Gaetano Borriello, one of the architects of Open Data Kit, an invited talk by Michael Doering on large-scale air pollution monitoring, and four reviewed papers on the acquisition, analysis, and use of large scale measurements. 
 
We are also excited to be organizing the first ever HotPlanet Mobility Data Contest sponsored by Google. The contest will challenge participants to plan an experiment that relies on mobilityrelated data, deriving the results and communicating them to a broader public. Thanks to the generosity of Google, we are able to offer prizes to the top three competitors. The contest will kick off at the HotPlanet workshop, and will continue throughout the entire MobiSys conference.