For depth information estimation of vision image, a blur parameter model of defocus image based on Markov random field (MRF) has been present. It converts problem of depth estimation into optimization problem. An improved chaos-PSO Algorithm has been applied to complete optimization problem, which prevents that the result gets into local optimization. The experiments and simulations prove that the model and algorithm are efficiency. Introduction The vision is a stress approach which manipulation robotic obtains external information. As we know, the vision with single CCD camera can only obtain 2D information in task space. In order to operate the object in 3D space, It is a exigent problem we encountered that obtains the depth of the object. To obtain the depth of manipulation from 2D plane image is a research hot topic in robotic vision. Many peoples[3][4][5][6] have done something to deal with it. Usually, There are several methods to obtain the depth of object. One is that employs stereo vision to restore the 3D image from the 2D image, which the algorithm of stereo match is very difficult. The second method we focused on is that computes blur characterization of image in the frequency domain to obtain depth. Third, As a representative, Pentland[7]has presented the method of Depth from Defocus based the blur image, which computes image object’s depth from two blur images in same scene, with changing the inner and external parameter of CCD camera. Pentland’s method depends on CCD camera system model and precise system parameter. Since the change in the depth of a scene is usually gradual, the blur parameter tends to have local dependencies. Hence, we are motivated to model the blur parameter as a MRF[1][9]. A defocus image blur parameter model base MRF has been presented in this paper. It converts the depth problem into energy function optimization problem. Then, applies an improved chaos-PSO algorithm to optimization energy function, which prevents that the result gets into local optimization. Experiments and simulations confirm the efficiency of model and algorithm. This paper is organized as follows. Section two gives CCD camera imaging model of camera vision defocus image, Section three constructs a blur parameter model of defocus image based on MRF, The Chaos-PSO algorithm and it’s implementation is presented in section four. Section five carries out experiments and simulations and conclusion is given in section six. CCD Camera Imaging Model According to CCD imaging principle, we can give formula as shown in (1) 1 1 1 0 0 f u v = + (1) Where f is the focus length, 0 u is the distances from object to camera, and 0 v is the distances from image focus point to camera lens. When the distances from object to camera lens is 0 u and the distances from camera plane to camera lens is 0 v , we can obtain a clear image. If changes the International Conference on Information Science and Computer Applications (ISCA 2013) © 2013. The authors Published by Atlantis Press 135 distances from camera plane to camera lens, a blur image can be seen in CCD camera plane. When keeps a constant for camera parameter, It can be given the relationship between image defocus radius and the depth of image as shown in (2) 0 0 b fv u v f Fr = − − (2) For formula (2), F is the F number of CCD lens. b r is the defocus radius of image and u is the depth of the image. Therefore, There is a corresponding function relationship between the distances from CCD lens to object and the defocus radius of blur image, which can be used to obtain the depth of the image. According to formula (2), the positive or negative of distances u depends on if the focus image locates fore or back in image plane. We restrict that the distances of object is higher than the distances of image. The formula (2) can be converted into (3) 0 1 1 1 ( ) 0 b f v r F f v u = − − (3) For two captured image with different focus length setting, we have formula (4) 1 1 1 ( ) i i i b i i f v r F f v u = − − (4) For defocus image, the blur parameter is ρ and is given by b r ρ β = , With giving value i=1 2 and eliminating u , the relationship of two defocus image’s blur parameter is shown as (5)