This volume contains the proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Refactoring Tools (WRT 2011), held in conjunction with the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2011). This workshop is a continuation of a series of previous workshops (ECOOP 2007, OOPSLA 2008 and 2009, http://refactoring.info/WRT) where researchers and developers of refactoring tools can meet and discuss recent ideas and work, and view tool demonstrations. 
 
Refactoring is the process of applying behavior-preserving transformations to a program with the objective of improving the program's design. A specific refactoring is identified by a name (e.g., Extract Method), a set of preconditions, and a set of transformations that need to be performed. 
 
Tool support for refactoring is essential because checking the preconditions of refactoring often requires nontrivial program analysis, and applying transformations may affect many locations throughout a program. In recent years, the emergence of lightweight programming methodologies such as Extreme Programming has generated a great amount of interest in refactoring, and refactoring support has become a required feature in today's IDEs. 
 
While there is a great deal of interest in developing tool support for refactoring, researchers and tool vendors rarely work together. This forum fosters the transfer of ideas and expertise both ways: researchers can show the state-of-the-art analyses they are using in developing tool support for refactoring, tool vendors can offer valuable insights onthe challenges of scaling such analyses to realistic applications. 
 
By bringing together researchers and tool vendors, we can shorten the time to transfer ideas into production systems. In addition, by making researchers aware of what others are working on, the potential for reinventing the wheel is reduced and the potential for creative collaboration is enhanced. 
 
This year, we received 15 submissions of which 8 were accepted. We would like to thank the authors for submitting their work. We are extremely grateful to the Program Committee members who did an outstanding job at reviewing the submissions and providing constructive feedback on how the authors can further improve their work. We feel that the quality of the reviews rivals that of the larger conferences. We thank Bill Griswold, Sebastian Elbaum, and Kathryn Stolee for their keynotes. Also, we thank the ICSE workshop chairs, Matthew Dwyer and Wolgang Emmerich, for their dedication to a great workshop experience at ICSE.