The web can be viewed as a directed graph if we take entities in the web as the vertices and connections which imply some relationship between pairs of the entities as the directed edges. Several such graphs can be set up to model the World Wide Web and be represented, saved and processed in proper mathematical way, e.g., the application of the theory of matrix computation. When we use the web documents as the entities and the web links from one page to another as the directed edges, the graph becomes the normal one that is widely used in algorithms like PageRank [1] and its descendants. In this family of algorithms, hyper web links are intuitively considered to embed the information of page importance from the viewpoint of page authors. This information is then used to form a characteristics matrix of the web and compute the rankings of web documents in Internet search engines. However, none of the user interests and preferences of the web surfers, the real end consumers of the Internet, is included in this simplest model of the web graph. Though in reality, visitors’ browsing activities indicate a lot in the importance of a document. In the traditional static models, the information on document importance conveyed by interactive browsing is neglected. Furthermore, if we take the visiting trails of the surfers as the edges between document vertices, the new model of the web graph would be quite different from the previous one. One would argue that this second model is nothing more than the first model plus the random jump mechanism described in PageRank. But this is not true since the random jump mechanism used in PageRank does not take any advantage of user interests and preferences which is actually more valuable than the static hyper link in this situation. Here user interests and preferences include but not limited to: pause time on a document, frequency of random jump, habits of revisiting the same page(s), starting page of surfing (which is usually a home page of some web site, but not a uniformly random web document in the Internet), language preference, topic preference, geographical preference, etc.. Most of these semantic 1 aspects also have the properties of being dynamic and time-related. None of these semantic issues can be represented