It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 1st International Workshop on Pervasive Eye Tracking and Mobile Eye-Based Interaction (PETMEI 2011). 
 
Recent developments in mobile eye tracking equipment and automated eye movement analysis point the way toward unobtrusive eye-based human-computer interfaces that will become pervasively usable in everyday life. We call this new paradigm pervasive eye tracking - continuous eye monitoring and analysis 24/7. 
 
PETMEI 2011 focuses on pervasive eye tracking as a trailblazer for mobile eye-based interaction and eye-based context-awareness. The workshop provides a forum for researchers and practitioners from context-aware computing, human-computer interaction and eye tracking to share their perspectives on techniques and applications that go beyond classical eye tracking and stationary gaze-based interaction. We want to stimulate and explore the creativity of these communities with respect to the implications, key research challenges, and new applications for pervasive eye tracking. 
 
Our international program committee consisted of 15 of the leading researchers in the fields of ubiquitous computing, human-computer interaction, eye tracking as well as experimental psychology. The call for papers attracted 13 submissions - 10 full papers and 3 notes - from Europe, Asia, and the United States. Each submission was reviewed by at least two members of the program committee. Of the 13 submissions, 11 were evaluated by one additional PC member. The PC members provided feedback to the authors through 37 high quality reviews. Based on the reviews and after an online discussion among the organisers, one full paper was downgraded to notes and a total of 10 submissions - 7 full papers and 3 notes - were accepted for publication in these proceedings. This represents an overall acceptance rate of 76.9%. 
 
Jeff B. Pelz will give an opening keynote entitled "Semantic Analysis of Mobile Eye Tracking Data" in which he highlights the challenges but also potential solutions for analysing large amounts of eye movement data collected using mobile eye trackers.