This second edition of the Computer Vision meets Databases (CVDB) workshop is held in Baltimore, MD, USA, on June 17, 2005. The workshop is sponsored by ACM and together with other innovative workshops CVDB is co-located with the Symposium on Principles of Database System (PODS) and the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data. For decades, the computer vision community has been working on content-based multimedia retrieval. Researchers from that community aim at defining better content-based descriptors and extracting them from images. The descriptors obtained are often represented as points in multi-dimensional spaces and some metrics are used during similarity retrieval. Their focus is on increasing the recognition power of their schemes and they usually evaluate their strength using data sets that fit in main memory because they try to avoid the secondary storage management burden.Facilitating the management of very large amounts of data and removing this disk burden has long been a strong motivation for the database community. This is particularly crucial for multimedia databases whose sizes grow very fast. As such, researchers in databases have proposed many smart multidimensional indexing schemes with some elegant algorithms to compute Nearest-Neighbor and Top-N queries.Yet, it is surprising to see that only few works in the computer vision community have adopted any of these indexing schemes. A common reason evoked is that the description schemes that database researchers use are way too simplistic. Therefore, it is hard for computer vision researchers to foresee how indexes could behave when used with a modern and powerful description scheme. Additional reasons given include the assumptions on the distribution of data, the ability to only retrieve the single nearest neighbor of query points, and the use of approximate search schemes that give little clue as to the quality of the returned results.The goal of' this workshop is to bridge this gap between the two communities. The idea is to provide database researchers with a snapshot of what computer vision people are dealing with and vice-versa, with the aim of' defining some research directions that can benefit both communities. There is great expertise on both sides, and this workshop is aimed at sharing it by means of tutorials and presentations.