Urban road traffic prediction is one of the key technologies in the construction of smart cities, playing a crucial role in alleviating traffic congestion and optimizing traffic management. Historically, high-quality and large-scale benchmark datasets have proven invaluable in driving research forward. For instance, the emerging LargeST dataset, as a representative large-scale dataset, has been evaluated by 12 different models, some of which, such as D2STGNN, GWNET, and STGCN, have shown excellent performance. This raises an important question: Is there a model that can achieve better performance on large-scale datasets like LargeST? This paper introduces a novel model recently proposed-DynGWN, specifically designed for time series prediction and spatio-temporal data analysis, particularly suitable for traffic prediction scenarios. DynGWN integrates the advantages of Graph Neural Networks (GNN) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), dynamically learning the graph structure to more effectively capture spatio-temporal dependencies. Additionally, the model proposes an effective method for automatically learning hidden spatial dependencies from data. Given the potential research value of DynGWN for the performance on large-scale datasets in future work, this paper applies DynGWN to the LargeST large-scale dataset and compares it with 12 baseline models that have been evaluated on this dataset. The results show that DynGWN has a slight edge in road traffic prediction, out-performing not only traditional static graph models but also the 12 baseline models. This proves that DynGWN not only performs well on small-scale datasets but also has excellent performance on large-scale datasets. At the same time, this paper also points out the direction for future research and the current shortcomings. The disadvantage is that limited by experimental conditions, there are only 5000 training samples in a single time, and the batch size is only 8. In the future, then, we will continue to explore which parameter configurations will make the model perform better on large traffic datasets. We release and baseline implementations at https://github.com/hyj2004/Dyn-GWN-Application-of-Graph-Wave-Networks-on-the-Largest-Traffic-Dataset.