Social recommendations (SRs) aim to enhance preference modeling by integrating social networks. However, their effectiveness is mainly constrained by two factors: the noisy social connections that may not reflect shared interests, and the limited number of social connections for most users, which hampers the system's ability to fully leverage social influence. Therefore, it is essential to perform social network refinement by removing noisy connections and adding meaningful ones for robust SRs. Inspired by the denoising capability of generative diffusion models, we propose a Model-Agnostic Social Network Refinement framework with Diffusion Models for Robust Social Recommendation (ARD-SR). Specifically, in the forward process, we corrupt the social network by progressively adding position-specific Gaussian noise calibrated to the user preference similarity, better simulating how the social network responds to noise perturbations. The reverse process learns to denoise, guided by each user's neighborhood preferences from the SR backbone, generating a tailored social network aligned with each user's preference for establishing connections. For effective learning, we design a curriculum-based training mechanism that progressively introduces challenging samples characterized by high sparsity or high noise levels. Finally, ARD-SR and the SR backbone are alternately trained, ensuring a continuous mutual enhancement between the social network refinement and the backbone's user representation learning. To further enhance the quality of the refined social network, (1) we introduce a preference-guided flip operation during inference to improve the input quality; and (2) we modify social connections based on the exponential weighted moving average of ARD-SR's predictions across epochs to reduce fluctuations. Experiments on three datasets show that ARD-SR significantly improves SR performance across multiple SR backbones. The code is released at https://github.com/sunyc123r/ARD-SR.