In recent years, various computing-in-memory (CIM) processors have been presented, showing superior performance over traditional architectures. To unleash the potential of various CIM architectures, such as device precision, crossbar size, and crossbar number, it is necessary to develop compilation tools that are fully aware of the CIM architectural details and implementation diversity. However, due to the lack of architectural support in current popular open-source compiling stacks such as TVM, existing CIM designs either manually deploy networks or build their own compilers, which is time-consuming and labor-intensive. Although some works expose the specific CIM device programming interfaces to compilers, they are often bound to a fixed CIM architecture, lacking the flexibility to support the CIM architectures with different computing granularity. On the other hand, existing compilation works usually consider the scheduling of limited operation types (such as crossbar-bound matrix-vector multiplication). Unlike conventional processors, CIM accelerators are featured by their diverse architecture, circuit, and device, which cannot be simply abstracted by a single level if we seek to fully explore the advantages brought by CIM. Therefore, we propose CIM-MLC , a universal multi-level compilation framework for general CIM architectures. In this work, we first establish a general hardware abstraction for CIM architectures and computing modes to represent various CIM accelerators. Based on the proposed abstraction, CIM-MLC can compile tasks onto a wide range of CIM accelerators having different devices, architectures, and programming interfaces. More importantly, compared with existing compilation work, CIM-MLC can explore the mapping and scheduling strategies across multiple architectural tiers in CIM, which form a tractable yet effective design space, to achieve better scheduling and instruction generation results. Experimental results show that CIM-MLC achieves 3.2× inference speedup on average compared to prior CIM-oriented compilation work.