SPLASH Posters provide an excellent forum for authors to present their work in an informal and interactive setting. Posters are ideal to showcase speculative, late-breaking results or to introduce interesting, innovative work. Posters sessions are highly interactive. They allow authors and interested participants to connect to each other and to engage in discussions about the work presented. Posters provide authors with a unique opportunity to draw attention to their work during the conference. Authors in other SPLASH technical tracks therefore are strongly encouraged to complement their submission with a poster about their work.
 After its remarkable success in previous years, SPLASH is again hosting an ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition. The competition, sponsored by Microsoft Research, is an internationally recognized venue that enables undergraduate and graduate students to experience the research world, share their research results with other students and SPLASH attendees, and compete for prizes. The ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition shares the Poster session's goal to facilitate students' interaction with researchers and industry practitioners, providing both sides with the opportunity to learn about ongoing research. Additionally, the ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition affords students with experience in both formal presentations and evaluations.
 On the following pages, you will find the SPLASH Poster and ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition abstracts that cover an interesting mix of topics from the domains of systems, applications, and programming languages. It is worth noting that students participating in the ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition submit their abstract as sole author. You can use the abstracts to receive a brief introduction to posters from both the SPLASH Posters and ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition on display during the poster session, or to find further information about the authors and their work. The ACM SIGPLAN Student Research Competition abstracts can also be used to get a general overview of what the student will be presenting during their formal presentation at the second round of the competition.