The emergence of the World Wide Web made massive amounts of data available and data exists in many scattered electronic data sources (e-sources) over the Web. Even though some of the data isin well-organized data sources, interoperability and integration with data from other sources, semantic coordination and conflict resolution are required for its full exploitation. Semantic Web enabled applications can potentially produce better results for semantic integration, interoperability and search. In particular, ontologies are widely regarded as the best solution toglobal information integration and semantic interoperability. 
 
The main objective of the 2nd International Workshop on Ontologies and Information Systems for the Semantic Web (ONISW 2008) is to bring together researchers in Information Management interested in the relation between ontology and information models, to present results and to discuss theoretical aspects and good practice. The Call for Paper solicited contributions that cover topics such as Ontology and epistemology in information systems, Ontology learning, Semantic interoperability, Ontology-based schema mapping/matching and integration, Ontology mapping tools, languages, and visualization, Schema transformation, Ontology-based data transformation and data migration tools, Ontology-based query mediation, Querying the Semantic Web, Ontology-driven application system and Web service design, etc. 
 
The Call for Papers attracted 21 submissions from Africa, Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. Each paper carefully reviewed by at least three members of program committee. Finally, the program committee accepted 16 papers. This volume of the proceedings contains papers presented in the 2nd International Workshop on Ontologies and Information Systems for the Semantic Web (ONISW 2008), which was held in Napa Valley, California, October 30, 2008. The workshop was held in conjunction with ACM 17th Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM).