We consider the global scheduling problem of multimode real-time systems upon identical multiprocessor platforms. During the execution of a multimode system, the system can change from one mode to another such that the current task set is replaced with a new task set. Thereby, ensuring that deadlines are met requires not only that a schedulability test is performed on tasks in each mode but also that (i) a protocol for transitioning from one mode to another is specified and (ii) a schedulability test for each transition is performed. In this paper, we extend the synchronous transition protocol SM-MSO in order to take into account mode-independent tasks [1], i.e., tasks of which the execution pattern must not be jeopardized by the mode changes. A Synchronous Transition Protocol with Periodicity for Global Scheduling of Multimode Real-Time Systems on Multiprocessors Vincent Nelis Computer Science Department Universite Libre de Bruxelles (U.L.B.) Brussels, Belgium vnelis@ulb.ac.be Bjorn Andersson CISTER Research unit Polytechnic Institute of Porto Porto, Portugal bandersson@dei.isep.ipp.pt Joel Goossens Computer Science Department Universite Libre de Bruxelles (U.L.B.) Brussels, Belgium joel.goossens@ulb.ac.be Abstract—We consider the global scheduling problem of multimode real-time systems upon identical multiprocessor platforms. During the execution of a multimode system, the system can change from one mode to another such that the current task set is replaced with a new task set. Thereby, ensuring that deadlines are met requires not only that a schedulability test is performed on tasks in each mode but also that (i) a protocol for transitioning from one mode to another is specified and (ii) a schedulability test for each transition is performed. In this paper, we extend the synchronous transition protocol SM-MSO in order to take into account mode-independent tasks [1], i.e., tasks of which the execution pattern must not be jeopardized by the mode changes.We consider the global scheduling problem of multimode real-time systems upon identical multiprocessor platforms. During the execution of a multimode system, the system can change from one mode to another such that the current task set is replaced with a new task set. Thereby, ensuring that deadlines are met requires not only that a schedulability test is performed on tasks in each mode but also that (i) a protocol for transitioning from one mode to another is specified and (ii) a schedulability test for each transition is performed. In this paper, we extend the synchronous transition protocol SM-MSO in order to take into account mode-independent tasks [1], i.e., tasks of which the execution pattern must not be jeopardized by the mode changes. Keywords-multimode scheduling; multiprocessor scheduling; real-time scheduling;