In the field of biomimicry, engineers have been exploring solutions from the nature into their inventions. This could be seen as insects and nature will inhibit certain characteristics and behavior in order to survive. This could be very vital information that could be utilized for human as to improve or get new ideas regarding issues that are interrelated. Nature has played a crucial role as many new inventions have been created based on the observation and things that are learn from nature for the comfort of human being. The most interesting invention use of biomimicry of the grasshopper in this mini review is the study of the grasshopper legs. The leg is capable of storing energy when it contracts and it releases its energy when it jumps. The motion of the grasshopper legs to accelerate at a very high velocity as a locomotion method to travel from one point to another and to design a mechanism to mimic the motion has been the most challenging. Mimicking the legs of the grasshopper has demonstrated that the design can be used as many application such as locomotion of vehicles, bionic legs for humans etc. The process of storing energy in the muscles while contracting and release the energy while relaxing lead to the jumping motion. For such a small animal to jump such a long distance, it’s really quite fascinating. Maybe no, since there are already some papers that have been published concerning the study of the grasshopper legs and few people has conducted some experiments on the grasshopper’s legs.1 Study the grasshopper legs which demonstrates that the grasshoppers are wonderful creatures with their jumping mechanism even though they are known as pests which damages crops. The grasshopper can instantly accelerate to a high velocity through contraction of the muscles and relaxation releasing the energy stored. Different applications such bionic legs for human, actuator arms for robots and locust inspired jumping robots has been inspired by grasshopper legs. Discussion