In recent years anti-spam filters have become necessary tools for Internet service providers to face up to the continuously growing spam phenomenon. Spam filtering is clearly a pattern recognition task in adversarial environment, as spammers are adversaries who continuously change the tricks used for evading classifiers (i.e., anti-spam filters) [1]. Many spammers' tricks are based on techniques that we can call of " content obfuscation ". For example, in order to evade filters which analyse email content, spammers use content obscuring techniques, by misspelling words and inserting HTML tags inside words, so avoiding automatic detection of typical spam keywords. One of the last tricks used by spammers, named image-based spam (shortly image spam), consists in embedding the spam message into attached images to circumvent content-based filtering modules. This is a successful trick, as it makes all current techniques based on the analysis of digital text in the subject and body fields of emails ineffective. In [2], the authors proposed an approach based on OCR tools and text categorization techniques which showed to be effective on the first generation of image spam, which exhibited a low degree of obfuscation. Other researchers proposed alternative approaches to defeat image spam [3], and the popular Spam Assassin filter was recently equipped with some plugins that use OCR algorithms. However, spammers started to obfuscate the text embedded into images to make it unreadable by OCR algorithms. The authors have recently carried out a systematic evaluation of OCR performance on spammer-obscured text images showing that spammers can evade OCR tools quite easily using obscured text images. In fact, spammers can obscure text embedded into images in so many different ways that approaches aimed to extract and analyse it have poor chances of success. For this kind of image spam, we advocated the use of approaches which take into account explicitly the adversarial environment, namely, approaches which recognise spam images by detecting the presence of obscured text (i.e., by detecting the presence of adversarial actions) [5]. In this paper we give two contributions to image spam filtering as a pattern recognition task in adversarial environment. First, we show by experiments that filtering of adversarial obscured images can be an extremely difficult task, if spammers' actions for evading classifiers are not taken into account explicitly. In particular, we report results of a systematic evaluation of OCR performance on spammer-obscured text images. We tested performance of gocr and Tesseract …