It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 3rd edition of the UPGRADE-CN workshop that takes place this year at the HPDC 2008 Symposium, in Boston (MA), USA. The mission of the workshop is to provide a forum to discuss recent enhancements of Content Distribution Networks (CDNs) and more general Content Networks (CNs). 
 
The two previous editions, which took place respectively at HPDC 2006 in Paris and HPDC 2007 in Monterey (CA), USA, have already confirmed the vitality of this research field and the necessity to exploit novel models and software technologies to improve the performance of content-oriented networks and make them suited for academic and industrial applications. In particular, P2P and Grid computing paradigms, often with the support of mobile agents that convey crucial information, are demonstrating their suitability in supporting the development of high-performance systems over large-scale, dynamic and heterogeneous environments. 
 
The third edition of UPGRADE-CN includes nine research papers selected through an accurate review process and two invited talks that present original ideas and results on content-oriented distributed systems. 
 
The first session of the workshop includes four talks that demonstrate the benefits deriving from the Grid technology for the discovery, retrieval, analysis and distribution of data. An invited paper, given by Manish Parashar, from Rutgers University, New Jersey, focuses on the concept of autonomic computing and its applications in Grids. This paradigm sets the user at the centre of attention, while technology becomes invisible, hidden in the natural surrounding, but still functional, autonomous, self-adaptive, interactive and available when needed. The second session comprises four talks with a particular focus on content distribution and delivery. They present novel algorithms and techniques that are used to increase the performance of content networks, including the efficient grouping of surrogates, the use of self-organized P2P overlays, and the definition of protocols for the distribution and delivery of content in wireless and mobile networks. The third session admits three talks that discuss algorithms for the management of content and the synchronized delivery of data in cooperative systems, ranging from small-large scale systems, used in public and private companies, to very large scale systems such as Desktop Grids, which exploit the computing facilities of thousands of private computers to tackle very large scientific projects. Desktop Grids are discussed in the invited talk given by Gilles Fedak, INRIA, France. 
 
The quality and variety of the topics covered by UPGRADE-CN papers provide a useful overview over the current research efforts in the field of content-oriented distributed systems and prove the vitality of this research area. It is also interesting to remark that several papers discuss the concrete use of research contributions to important application domains, such as bioinformatics, medical assistance, analysis of environmental data and fire detection. We thank the members of the program committee and the reviewers. Their work guaranteed an accurate review process and assured a selection of high quality papers. We hope that you will find this program interesting and thought-provoking and that the workshop will offer you a valuable opportunity to share ideas with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world.