Each year, the SIGCSE Symposium represents a most exciting time for computing educators. This year's event continues that wonderful tradition with a wide array of talks, sessions, workshops, exhibits, and opportunities for dialog.Congratulations to Mordechai Ben-Ari, winner of SIGCSE's Award for Contributions to Computer Science Education, and to Bruce Klein, winner of SIGCSE's Award for Lifetime Service! Many, many thanks for the entire SIGCSE 2004 Committee for its marvelous work in putting so many pieces together! Special thanks go to Daniel Joyce and Deborah Knox for their outstanding leadership as Symposium Co-Chairs. This annual event requires leaders with insight, creativity, dedication, organizational ability, collaborative skill, and considerable hard work, and these leaders have done an outstanding job. Special thanks also to Wanda Dann and Thomas Naps as Program Co-chairs for their terrific leadership, energy, sense of balance, and communicative abilities in shaping the record number of session proposals into a rich and varied program.These Proceedings represent a stimulating guide for attendees to the Symposium. I welcome conference participants to this energizing event where you will attend sessions, catch up with old friends, and meet new colleagues.These Proceedings also represent a great resource for all SIGCSE members, with thought-provoking papers, descriptions, and references. Happy reading to all! Even with this event upon us, it is worthwhile to look ahead to coming activities. SIGCSE is a vibrant and growing organization due to the contributions of all its members, and I encourage you to participate in events and to help SIGCSE develop even further. 
Every three years, SIGCSE elects officers to help guide the organization. The next election will take place this spring, and in March or April SIGCSE members should receive by mail information on an outstanding list of candidates. I encourage all SIGCSE members to vote! 
Each summer, SIGCSE sponsors a European conference. This year, please join us June 28-30, 2004, at ITiCSE 2004 at the University of Leeds, England. For more details, please see http://www.iticse04.leeds.ac.uk/