On behalf of the ICCAD 2002 Executive and Technical Program Committees, we would like to welcome you to the International Conference on Computer-Aided Design, November 10th through 14th at the DoubleTree Hotel in San Jose. In addition to the outstanding technical program that one expects every year from ICCAD, this year we will also review 20 years of past accomplishments and take new steps forward to begin the next 20 years of ICCAD.To celebrate our anniversary, there will be a special dinner with host William H. Joyner, Jr., taking a lighthearted look at the past 20 years of ICCAD and the people who represented it. Attendees will also receive a copy of a special edition book: "The Best of ICCAD - 20 Years of Excellence in Computer-Aided Design", compiled by Andreas Kuehlmann. The papers in the book represent works that originated from the past two decades of ICCAD and were selected by a committee that included all of the former conference chairs and several international research leaders. The book includes commentaries on the historic impact and context of the various works.This year, some of the conference activities begin on Sunday, November 10th, with a Workshop on Open Source and Open Standards. The workshop will include three parallel tracks covering: the OpenAccess effort, an open source circuit simulator, SystemC, SystemVerilog, OpenVera and ForSpec, and TestBuilder and Sugar. Following the workshop sessions the participants will all be invited to a panel "Open Source: EDA's Next Wave or Yesterday's Hype?", moderated by Larry Nagel. For the students on Sunday, ACM/SIGDA is sponsoring a CADathlon, a new programming contest that challenges students in their CAD knowledge, and their problem solving, programming, and teamwork skills. The competition is open to all graduate students who are currently enrolled full-time in a Ph.D. granting institution.The ICCAD 2002 conference officially begins on Monday with the opening keynote by Chekib Akrout, Director, Microprocessor Development, IBM Corp., titled: "The Future of Electronic Games and the Impact on Design Automation." The technical program, organized by Andreas Kuehlmann and Hidetoshi Onodera, follows with 35 technical paper sessions comprised of 105 papers that were chosen from 381 submissions. We are particularly excited about two invited sessions that include 6 papers from international design experts that focus on emerging and low power design issues. Recognizing that the integrated circuit landscape has changed over the past twenty years, it is apparent that future design and EDA research must be done in tighter collaboration than ever before. These sessions represent ICCAD's first steps toward taking a leadership role in spawning more collaborative design and EDA research for the next 20 years. Our Monday evening panel moderated by John Cohn, "CAD for CAD's Sake? Are CAD and Design Diverging?" will further explore the increasing importance of CAD and design collaboration moving forward.The technical program also includes five exciting embedded tutorials on MTCMOS, Nanotechnology, Challenges in Sub-wavelength Lithography, The A to Z of SOCs, and SAT and ATPG in Synthesis and Verification. The conference concludes on Thursday, November 14th with four new full-day tutorials: 1) High Performance Integrated Circuit Analysis and Design Including On-Chip Inductance, 2) FPGAs: Computer-Aided Design, Applications and Future Architectures, 3) Specification and Design of Multimillion Gate SOCs, and 4) Placement - the Key Problem in Physical Design. we are certain that you will enjoy the conference and the festivities of our 20th anniversary celebration. We look forward to a great close of the first twenty years and an exciting kick-off for the next 20 years of ICCAD.