It is our great pleasure to present you the proceedings of the 11th Asia CCS (held in Xi'an, China), an ACM SIGSAC venue just renamed ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security to reflect its leadership stance in the Asia security community and world-wide impact on security research. This name change also comes with a new high in the conference's academic excellence, thanks to the unprecedented number of high-quality submissions. 
 
This year, we received 350 submissions from 34 countries, a new record in the conference's decade-long history. These papers were reviewed by 104 security researchers from 17 countries, assisted by 218 external reviewers, based upon their novelty, technical quality and presentation. First time in the conference's history, we adopted a two-round review mechanism with early notifications, together with a three-week online discussion. This thoughtful and rigorous review process has led to 73 full papers selected for the program, representing an acceptance rate of 20.8%, and additional 8 short papers. 
 
This wonderful program was made possible by a team effort. Most important here are the authors, to whom we are grateful for submitting their best research outcomes to the conference. Also, we thank the Program Committee and external reviewers who worked very hard to provide valuable feedbacks to the authors. On average, each PC member reviewed 11 papers and actively participated in the discussion and some also volunteered to shepherd accepted papers to ensure their qualities. Their professionalism exemplifies the volunteer peer-review process that is so important to moving the security science forward. 
 
This year's technical program comes together with 5 workshops: CPSS'16, AsiaPKC'16, SCC'16, WTMC'16 and IoTPTS'16, also a new record. We thank the workshop organizers for their hard work for building up their individual programs. Also, we are so fortunate to have three distinguished speakers, Giovanni Vigna, Michael Backes and Yang Xiang, from three continents, to share with us their visions of security and privacy research.