These proceedings contain the contributed papers of the Seventh Workshop on Exploiting Semantic Annotations in Information Retrieval (ESAIR 2014), held at CIKM 2014 in Shanghai, on November 7, 2014. After successful workshops at ECIR'08 in Glasgow, WSDM'09 in Barcelona, CIKM'10 in Toronto, CIKM'11 in Glasgow, CIKM'12 at Maui, and CIKM'13 in San Francisco, this year's workshop will remain to advance the general research agenda on this core problem, with an explicit focus on one of the most challenging aspects to address in the coming years. The main remaining challenge is on the user's side---the potential of rich document annotations can only be realized if matched by more articulate queries exploiting these powerful retrieval cues---and a more dynamic approach is emerging by exploiting new forms of query autosuggest. How can the query suggestion paradigm be used to encourage searcher to articulate longer queries, with concepts and relations linking their statement of request to existing semantic models? How do entity results and social network data in "graph search" change the classic division between searchers and information and lead to extreme personalization---are you the query? How to leverage transaction logs and recommendation, and how adaptive should we make the system? What are the privacy ramifications and the UX aspects---how to not creep out users? 
 
These and other related questions will be discussed at this open format workshop -- the aim is to provide paths for further research to change the way we understand information access today! 
 
The workshop will consist of three main parts: 
Two keynotes to help us frame the problem, and create a common understanding of the challenges: Peter Mika (Yahoo Labs) and Silviu-Petru Cucerzan (Microsoft Research). 
A boaster and poster session with 11 papers selected by the program committee from 15 submissions (a 73% acceptance rate). Each paper was reviewed by at least two members of the program committee. 
Breakout groups on different aspects of exploiting semantic annotations, with reports being discussed in the final session.