Deep visual graph matching (GM) is a challenging combinatorial task that involves finding a permutation matrix that indicates the correspondence between keypoints from a pair of images. Like many learning systems, empirical studies have shown that visual GM is susceptible to adversarial attacks, with reliability issues in downstream applications. To the best of our knowledge, certifying robustness for deep visual GM remains an open challenge with two main difficulties: how to handle the paired inputs together with the heavily non-linear permutation output space (especially at large scale), and how to balance the trade-off between certified robustness and matching performance. Inspired by the randomized smoothing (RS) technique, we propose the Certified Robustness based on the Optimal Smoothing Range Search (CR-OSRS) technique to fulfill the robustness guarantee for deep visual GM. First, unlike conventional RS methods that use isotropic Gaussian distributions for smoothing, we build the smoothed model with paired joint Gaussian distributions, which capture the structural information among keypoints, and mitigate the performance degradation caused by smoothing. For the vast space of the permutation output, we devise a similarity-based partitioning method that can lower the computational complexity and certification difficulty. We then derive a stringent robustness guarantee that links the certified space of inputs to their corresponding fixed outputs. Second, we design a global optimization method to search for optimal joint Gaussian distributions and facilitate a larger certified space and better performance. Third, we apply data augmentation and a similarity-based regularizer in training to enhance smoothed model performance. Lastly, for the high-dimensional and multivariable nature of the certified space, we propose two methods (sampling and marginal radii) to evaluate it. Experimental results on public benchmarks show that our method achieves state-of-the-art certified robustness.