Cell libraries determine the final density, performance, and power of most IC designs much as the construction materials determine the quality of a building. Nevertheless, the importance of libraries has often been a tertiary consideration in design projects-falling behind both design skill and tool quality. Choosing the right cell library for your project can have a significant impact on the characteristics of the circuit you design, and thus, the success of your product. Design teams need to consider a host of technical and business factors when selecting a library. Technical considerations include density, speed, power, design for reliability, and support for the designer's tools and flow. Business considerations include price, risk, time to market, and control of one's own destiny. This panel examines technical, as well as current business issues, associated with cell libraries. On the technical front, the advantages and disadvantages of static libraries versus``on the fly'' or dynamic libraries will be discussed and quantified. On the business front, while designers have traditionally used the cell libraries provided by their silicon source (internal division or semiconductor vendor), recent changes in technology and business practices make several cell-library sources available to design groups: silicon vendors, third party library vendors, and internally created. This panel will explore the business issues associated with the library choice and debate when designers should use each available source of cell libraries. The third party foundation cell library industry exists because of the technical and economic benefits of specialization that is driven by very deep sub-micron process technologies. However, not all cell libraries are equal. Alignment of goals across designers, library vendors, and foundries, is essential to successful completion of chip designs. Different circuit design projects are best served by different cell libraries – each representing a different speed, area, risk, and cost tradeoff. Design groups are best served by picking the library that best meets their needs. Foundries are working closely with third party library companies to insure that these libraries work reliably on the foundry's process. Foundries, third party library companies, and circuit design companies are also cooperating to create business models that fairly represent the value contributed by each party. Designers can choose from a combination of parameters that include density, high speed, ultra low power, library & tool integration, and special cell development. As companies integrate more and more of their systems on a chip, ASIC design must support the entire system …