Industry was, and still is, critical of many academic computer science programs ; students are educate d primarily in the theoretical and non-applied areas of computing. Potential employers may demand a minimum of two years experience which the graduate does not have. The typical student can become discouraged and may obtain work in a one or two man shop, gaining experience while losing motivation and interes t in the more formal pursuit of computer science. Now that academic computer systems programs are becomin g increasingly available, universities and industry can cooperate to produce graduates more attuned to th e demands of future employment. This awareness can be partly realized in cooperative employment program s by universities and appropriate industrial firms. Originally, the internship was to satisfy a university requirement : each department should have a course in the university ' s cooperative program. After two or three groups of students had completed th e internship, it was observed that they had the option of returning to work with their "employer " at a salary commensurate with an individual having at least two years experience, or employment elsewhere a t a similar rate. Observation indicated that the value of the internship was directly related to the typ e of work in which the student was engaged. Those placed in positions demanding responsibility and initiative were most able to convert their years in the academic program into actual work experience. The success or failure of. an internship program rests with its administration. Unless the facult y administrator, industrial supervisor and student have clearly defined guidelines, misunderstandings ma y lead to frustrations and the ultimate demise of the program. The sponsoring organization must feel tha t the student and the university are working toward its goals, whereas the university must be satisfie d that the student is obtaining further training in the field. In order to accomplish these objectives , the p roject must be clearly defined, the studen t ' s role must be specified, and the industrial superviso r should be the primary evaluator. A clearly defined project provides the basis for control of an internship . This allows the faculty administrator to ascertain the usefulness of the work. It should b e apparent from the description what new skills or training the student will receive. In addition t o specifying a suitable project, the description should provide the basis for …