Luby and Rackoff [21] showed a method for constructing a pseudo-random permutation from a pseudorandom function. The method is based on composing four (or three for weakened security) so called Feistel permutations, each of which requires the evaluation of a pseudo-random function. We reduce somewhat the complexity of the construction and simplify its proof of security by showing that two Feistel permutations are sufficient together with initial and final pair-wise independent permutations. The revised construction and proof provide a framework in which similar constructions may be brought up and their security can be easily proved. We demonstrate this by presenting some additional adjustments of the construction that achieve the following: ● Reduce the success probability of the adversary. ● Provide a construction of pseudo-random permutations with large input size using pseudo-random functions with small input size. ●A full version of this paper is available as Theory of C~yptography Library: Record 96-11 at: http: //theory.lcs .m.it. edul tcryptol/homepage .html f Incumbent of the Morris and Rose Goldman Career Development Chair, Dept. of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. Research supported by grant no. 356/94 from the Israel Science Foundation administered by the Israeli Academy of Sciences. E-mail: naor@wisdom.weizmann .ac.iL tDePt, of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. Part of this research was supported by a Clore Scholars award. E-mail: reingold@wisdom .weiznmnn.ac.il. Permission 10 make digil;llhml copies offlll or pall o~lhis nl:llcriitl Ibr person:lIor Atssroom uw is grmlcli wilhwlt Fecprnvidcd th:ll Ihe copies are nrrl made or dislrilwled Iiw prolil or Lwnmcrcin I adinnl:Ige. Ihe copy ri@ notice. Ihc Ii[lc ol’lhc p(lhlicnli(m and ils dnlc nppc~l-.and noliw is given Ilmt copyright IS by permission oflhc ;\CA1. [nc, T(I copv olhwwiw. to rqwhlish. 10 posl (m scrww (Ir II) rcdwlril>lllc 10 Iisls. rcqllir.x yrwilic permissim mxVor Lx SW)( ‘ 97 1;11’:1s0, ‘1’cxwI is,\ Copyrighl I 997 .A(.’hl O-W791 -88 X-(197:(J5 S3 S(J ● 1 Provide a construction of a pseudo-random permutation using a single pseud~random function.