We discuss two problems from the relatively new field of computational geometry to illustrate two advanced notions in algorithm design and analysis. One problem deals with the triangulation of convex polygons while the other delves into minimum enclosing rectangles Our work continues with the objective set forth in an earlier paper of a similar title. 0. Introduction and Background In an earlier paper [DP88], the first author presented several examples from the field of computational geometry that demonstrated a number of key algorithmic techniques. This was in response to a perceived need for new sources of illustrative tools in the teaching of algorithm design and analysis. In this paper, we aim to continue in this objective by discussing two more examples that describe more advanced notions in the study of algorithms -placing bounds on problem complexity and the simulation of random processes. Both examples involve convex polygons and were assigned as exercises in an upper-level course in algorithm analysis at the University of New Orleans. We feel the choice of problems is appropriate because they address the current move towards processes that lend themselves to visualization (see [Fr88] and [Br88]). Much work is being done nowadays in the relatively new field of computational geometry. Many of the recent results would certainly qualify as sources of teaching material. The selection included in this paper simply represents the research interest of the first author and not any judgment of the suitability of other people’s work. Our paper is organized as follows: In Section 1, we briefly go over the theoretical underpinnings of our work, namely, the principles involved in “counting” and triangulation, and the characterization of Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted pyovided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.