Beginning to create the New Ozford English Dictionary database has resulted in the realization that databases for reference texts are unlike those for conventional enterprises. While the traditional approaches to database design and development are sound, the particular techniques used for commercial databases have been repeatedly found to be inappropriate for text-dominated databases, such as the New OED. In the same way that the relational model was developed based on experiences gained from earlier database approaches, the grammar-based model presented here builds on the traditional foundations of computer science, and particularly database theory and practice. This new model uses grammars as schemas and “parsed strings” as instances. Operators on the parsed strings are defined, resulting in a “p-string algebra” that can be used for data manipulation and view definition. The model is representation-independent and the operators are non-navigational, so that efficient implementations may be developed for unknown future hardware and operating systems. Several approaches to storage structures and efficient processing algorithms for representative hardware configurations have been investigated. 1. Text is unlike other data Most database approaches today have arisen from the database processing needs of business. Even a cursory look at commercial database systems, introductory Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear. and notice is given that copying is by-permission of the Very Large Data Base Endowment. To copy otherwise, or to republish. requires a fee and/or special permission from the Endowment. Proceedings of the 13th VLDB Conference, Brighton 1987 database textbooks, and traditional database models quickly reveals the database community’s orientation towards parts, suppliers and projects. But not all manipulation of data is best described in terms of operations involving entities and their set-oriented relationships. Consider, for example, a bibliographic entry a8 follows: Doe, John, “Crime”, Police 6,3 (Aug. 1928) 362-9. Traditional data modelling is well-suited to capturing the relationships among author, title, and source, but in so doing it completely ignores the essence of the entry itself: its form. As a result, data processing involving the text itself (e.g. extracting a reference such as “[Doe28]” or determining the number of the last page) is outside the scope of most database languages. We use the term “textdominated databases” to refer to collections of structured data that are predominantly composed of alphabetical characters. Examples include dictionaries, encyclopedias, almanacs, collections of news clippings, abstracts, legal documents, insurance policies, note cards, and so on, as well as bibliographies. In fact, most of the ideas in this paper arise directly from our involvement in computerizing the Oxford English Dictionary and our previous work on using grammars to define data structures ]Gonnet83]. The OED and each of the other text databases rely on highly formatted presentations of textual data that represent carefully composed expressions of facts, not merely an amorphous knowledge base [Tompa86]. In this paper, we present a database model for textdominated database systems. In Section 2, we introduce “p-strings” which serve as data instances for schemas described in terms of grammars, and we outline the funds mental operators for manipulating parsed text. As is true in relational database environments, the operators CB~ be used to support database. views. A few representative examples of the application of p-strings are given in Section 3, and Section 4 describes ensuing research challenges.