INTRODUCTION Recent rapid advances in electronics and computer technology has greatly increased the potential for practially implementing applications of machine, or artificial, intelligence (A.I.) techniques. In this article we will briefly highlight some of the government research efforts in A.I. The purpose of this research is to provide the technology to reduce costs, fill gaps in current capabilities, provide new capabilities and increase productivity. Though several government organizations fund research in some common A.I. areas, the research is oriented toward organizational objectives, with the results tending to be mutually supportive and complementary rather than duplicative. The advent of the NASA Space Shuttle is opening a new era in space. A era where ready low-cost access to space makes possible large space-structures, and the beginning of space industrialization, increased global information services, and enhanced scientific exploration of the universe. In the early 80's, it is estimated that roughly 85% of NASA's space program will be spent for other than transportation. Thus, NASA must look elsewhere besides propulsion if further substantial cost reductions are to be achieved. Increasing the level of autonomy of space operations appears to be one approach to yielding large cost reductions. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory estimates that approximately one third of the cost of missions is associated with ground support operations. Thus, reductions in mission operation system development and operations costs can play a major role in reducing costs of space missions. One way of characterizing the increasing autonomy desired is in terms of operations per command as shown in Figure 1. Some of the operations expected to be automated are indicated in Figure 2. Potential increased capability gains to be derived from increasing autonomy in the space program have been estimated in the Figure 2 billions of dollars per year by 1990 as indicated in Figure 3. This figure does not include additional potential benefits such as can be achieved by on-board data processing. Robotics and machine intelligence research at NASA draws upon automation, robotic and artificial intelligence techniques to reduce ground support requirements, provide real time control, new mission opportunities , and improved reliability and performance in support of space exploration , space assembly, automation of manufacturing facilities, launch and Earth Invited Panel-1: Gevarter 940 POTENTIAL BENEFITS ASSOCIATED WITH INCREASING AUTONOMOUS OPERATIONS Figure 3 orbital operations, and remote operations of systems in hostile environments. At the present time humans exercise direct control over nearly all decisions …