It has long been recognized that the collection frequency of an index term, that is the number of documents to which it is assigned, is potentially of value in retrieval. In particular, some use has been made of term weighting functions which use (either alone or in combination with other information) term frequency data. There is much experimental evidence that such weighting schemes improve performance. At the conference organized by this group jointly with its British counterpart, in Britain last year, Salton presented a paper (Salton and Wu, forthcoming) in which he surveyed a number of different models of the relationship between term weight and term value. He gathered together an impressive array of models to suggest that this relationship is a peaked one: that is, the best index terms are those in a middling range of frequencies; terms with frequencies outside this range are likely to be of lesser value. Sparck Jones, in the U.K., has long been using a term-frequency based weighting function which assumes that the most valuable terms are those of least frequency. Salton presented this function as simply a reasonable approximation to the peaked curve over the most important part of the range. There is, however, some evidence for the Sparck Jones monotonic function. The object of this paper is to review this evidence and at the same time to compare the two models. I had hoped, when I set out on this paper, to come to some firm answers. As it turns out, as we shall see, I came up only with a curious puzzle. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. Sparck Jones' (1972) monotonic function was initially suggested by the Zipfian charcter of the distribution of term frequencies. In particular, the distribution suggests a logarithmic function for the weighting formula. Such a function was tried by Sparck Jones and found to give improvements in retrieval performance over simple(unweighted) retrieval. The Zipf argument was not intended as a theoretical justification for the function; the only justification suggested was retrieval performance. Salton (1975) proposed …