Movement, or mobility, is key to the accessibility, design, andusability of many websites. While some peripheral mobility issueshave been addressed few have centered on the mobility problems ofvisually impaired users. We use our past work to address these is-sues and derive mobility heuristics from mobility models, use theseheuristics to place mobility objects within a web page, and describethe construction of a prototype mobility instrument, in the formof a Netscape plug-in, to process these objects. Speciﬁcally, welikened web use to travelling in a virtual space, compared it to trav-elling in a physical space, and introduced the idea of mobility - theease of travel - as opposed to travel opportunity. Our hypothesis isthat travel and mobility within the web mirrors travel and mobilitywithin real-world environments. We suggest that the Web commu-nity has typically concentrated on navigation and / or orientationrather than the whole travel experience, and that this neglect is cru-cial when dealing with browsing by visually impaired users. Wetherefore extend the deﬁnition of travel to mean: conﬁdent naviga-tion and orientation with purpose, ease and accuracy within an envi-ronment. Work, including ours, has shown that: Visually impairedusers are hindered in their efforts to access the largest repository ofelectronic information in the world, namely the World Wide Web(WWW) [4]; A visually impaired user’s cognition, perception, andworld view are highly egocentric, meaning that information feed-back should be tailored to these mental processes [1, 4]; Visuallyimpaired web travellers are at a severe disadvantage, when movingaround the web, compared to their sighted counterparts [4] (this isbecause of the lack of explicit and necessary mobility information,implicitly available to a sighted user [4]); The absence of suitablemobility guidelines, mobility design and evaluation methodologies,technical implementations, and work on holistic views (models) ofmobility, all hinder visually impaired users [3, 4]; W3C WAI, We-bABLE, RNIB, AFB, and other guidelines focus on sensory trans-lation by the graceful conversion of visual to auditory information,but take no account of mobility; Hypertext design and evaluationmethodologies, like HDM and SUE [2], pay little attention to mo-bility as do Web browsers for visually impaired users; Solutionsexist to real world mobility problems of visually impaired trav-ellers. These solutions can be applied (after some conversion) tothe web, so that a visually impaired user’s movement is enhanced[3]. We have now created a mobility tool in the form of a NetscapePlug-in in an attempt to support our theories. The plug-in pro-duces a series of fragmented web pages, decorated with generatedinformation derived from the placement of the Towel Mobility Ex-tension (TME) objects. The plug-in is loaded when the browser