One of the most frustrating things that can happen to an academic computer user is to spend severa l months developing the ideas for a research or teaching project ; have a programmer or yourself spend th e time writing and debugging the necessary programs only to find out at a later date that a program wa s already available which would accomplish the same goal . The source of the program may have been from a users' group such as CAUSE or the DEC users' group or it may have been from a conference proceedings or i n general discussions with members of academic computing at other universities . Even though the newly discovered program may not he the exact model which one would develop on his own, it could possibly save th e researcher or faculty member many weeks of detail work . It is for this reason that I feel that an academi c software exchange program is very beneficial and is past due . It seems to be a relatively straightforward problem to handle the mechanics of such a program . All one would need would be a centralized collecting point where information concerning programs could be sent , abstracted, duplicated and published periodically . One of the ACM newsletters might serve as a source fo r this, i .e ., the SIGCSE Bulletin or the SIGUCC Bulletin . The biggest problem that I see with a program of this type would be the managerial problem of collecting and publishing the data concerning the program s available . It might be necessary to establish a small charge with each request in order to defray th e expenses borne by the originator of the program for duplicating, etc . Many of the universities would b e able to transmit the data quickly, easily and cheaply by simply sending a computer tape to the author o f the original program and having a copy of the source copied onto the tape and mailed back . This would alleviate many of the problems with the sending of source documents and cards through the mail . Computeroutput microfiche (COM) is another viable method of easily and cheaply distributing source documents an d documentation . Publication would also encourage the developer of such a system to document the codin g well and to make sure that the instructions for using such a system are clear, concise and easy to under stand by a novice . Another advantage to this type of program would be to encourage the user to write mor e generalized programs which could take generalized types of input and have a flexible output source . The debugging of such systems would be a little more complex initially but would prove to be extremely beneficial to the academic community over a period of time . In some ways a software exchange program such as this could be compared to the BBW programs develope d at UCLA, SPSS and SAS . One of the problems with a comparison of this type is that these statistical pro grams were developed and then distributed commercially . This has insured that the documentation is goo d and that the programs are continuously updated . It does pose a problem for many of the smaller universities which need programs of this type but cannot absorb the costs . Another problem is that these ar e generalized mathematical and statistical type routines which are utilized by many disciplines, however , they do not necessarily meet all of the needs of the discipline . It seems reasonable that programs could be developed for other types of useage such as in the biological sciences and social sciences . Generalize d programs which do things other than statistical analysis or numerical techniques should be of interest to a wide variety of users . A major source with which I am familiar for the distribution of generalized teaching of softwar e packages is the proceedings of CCUC (Conference of Computers in Undergraduate Curricula) . This is a very good source from which one can receive information concerning programs in Geography, foreign languages , social sciences, etc . I am sure that if it is found desirable to initiate an academic software exchange program that man y other sources of software can be found . My guess is that a solicitation in the SIGUCC and SIGCSE Bulletin s and possibly several other publications of this type would bring in a wealth of information sources . In fact, the biggest problem with a program of this type is that it could turn out to be too successful . Panel Member : Phyllis Fox Bell Lab s