Lists of entities must often be speciied in many real-world applications such as customer lists, electronic distribution lists and access control lists. These lists are typically spec-iied through explicit enumeration, frequently aided by re-cursive expansion. In this paper, we discuss the declarative speciication and extraction of members of such lists as queries over a directory that maintains information both about individuals and about lists, and identify key features that the directory must support to manage lists in a exible manner. X.500 is the industry standard for modeling information about individuals in a directory, and LDAP is the proposed standard for accessing directory information. We have designed and built a system to represent and manage lists in the X.500 information model, and developed ee-ciently evaluable extensions to the LDAP query language for the location and expansion of lists. We describe the system architecture and the query evaluation algorithm of this system. Our system is deployed for use in the speciication and expansion of (organizational and personal) electronic messaging (e-mail, voice mail and FAX) distribution lists at AT&T Labs. 1 Motivation Lists of entities must often be speciied in many real-world applications such as prospective customer lists, lists of network resources, manufacturing parts lists, electronic distribution lists, and access control lists. These lists are typically speciied through explicit enumeration, frequently aided by recursive expansion: Prospective Customer Lists: Companies often use customer lists to market their products and services to targeted lists of prospective customers. For example, a pharmaceutical company may maintain a prospective customer list doctors, that includes addresses of doctors to whom it sends promotional mailings, and samples of new medicines. Electronic Distribution Lists: Distribution lists are the primary mechanism of sending an e-mail message to an intended list of recipients, without the sender having to know or enumerate explicitly their individual electronic mail addresses. For example, the distribution list dbworld maintained at the Computer Sciences Department at the University of Wisconsin{Madison includes most researchers in the world interested in databases. Access Control Lists: Secure systems often have lists of users with speciic access rights. For example, in the UNIX le system, read/write/execute access rights to individual documents associated with the HighFlier project of a corporation can be provided to members of the highflier access control list (or group), allowing for controlled sharing of information. The utility of these lists would be considerably enhanced if they could be used to specify …