One of the goals in automated reasoning on a computer is to find a good balance between the level of abstraction at which a problem can be formulated and the efficiency by which it can be solved. Deductive processes are not necessarily inefficient. In part icular for propositional (variable-free) problems, efficient methods have become available. Satisfiability for ground Horn clauses can be implemented in linear time [5]. A recent generalization of this result is given in [10], where it is shown tha t finite da ta bases can be saturated with respect to certain non-ground Horn theories in t ime linear in the number of prefix firings. (This is the number of ways a prefix of the antecedent of a Horn clause can possibly match atoms is the sa turated da ta base.) Congruence closure, the problem of deciding implication between sets of ground equations, can be computed in time O(m log m) [6]. These results make two fundamental algorithmic concepts dynamic programming and balanced binary trees available at a rather high level of abstraction. In his work on "local theories" [9], McAllester has shown that many inference problems for Horn theories with variables can be reduced to propositional problems and, hence, can be efficiently solved. A second line of research was concerned with improving saturat ion-based methods for automated reasoning in firstorder theories of transit ive relations. As a result, bet ter inferences systems were developed for equational theories and also for first-order theories of non-symmetric transit ive relations [1, 2, 3, 11]. These methods employ inference systems tha t are parameterized by orderings on ground terms and by selection functions. Orderings and selection functions restrict inferences to only few positions in terms and clauses. Proof-theoretically such restricted inference systems avoid inefficiencies caused by searching for trivial variants of proofs as they can be obtained from proof rotation. In other words, term orderings and selection functions help to bet ter distinguish between don' t -care and don' t -know nondeterminism in proof search. In addition, formal concepts were developed tha t capture many cases of global redundancy as they arise from subsumption on the level of proofs and part ia l proofs. These formal notions of redundancy allow one to justify elimination and simplification techniques. For in-