This paper presents two simple artificial neural networks that are suitable for programming assignments in introductory computer programming courses. One of the examples is an elementary pattern associator and the second is a bidirectional associative memory (BAM). The data structures required for the sample problems are oneand two-dimensional arrays. These artificial neural network programming assignments introduce students to an active research area and a non-traditional programming paradigm. Introduction For students, one of the most important aspects of the introductory computer programming courses is experi ence writing programs. Instructors typically choose programming assignments with some specific programming concept or data structure in mind. These assignments are too often not cognitively interesting in themselves and are seldom related to current active computer science research areas. The field of artificial neural networks offers a source of programming assignments using oneand two-dimensional arrays. Although artificial neural networks can be quite complex, there are intmesting networks that have simple structures. An unc[erstanding of one and two dimensional arrays is all the background needed to develop some introductory artificial neural networks. This paper presents two example problems. The first is suitable for students in a first programming course after they have been introduced to arrays. The second problem is easy to understand but requires a higher level of programming skill to complete. It is suitable for students in their second programming course. Using such assignments provides students with an introduction to a topic of great current interest as well as an opportunity to see a completely different programming paradigm. Pe~mission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fae and/or specific permission. e 1991 ACM 0-89791 -377 -919110002-0043 . ..$1 .50 Artificial Neural Networks -Background Interest in artificial neural networks goes back to the early 1940’s when McCulloch and Pitts (1943) developed a model of computation motivated by the physiology of the cerebral cortex, General interest in the area subsided in the late 1960’s although some scientists (e.g., Anderson in California, Grossberg at Boston, and Widrow and Huff at Stanford, University) continued working in the field. With the discovery of new approaches that overcame some of the earlier limitations, neural network research became re-established as a credible endeavor in the early 1980’s. By 1987 this work culminated in the First International Conference on Neural Networks (sponsored by IEEE), the formation of the International Neural Network Society (INNS), and the introduction of six commercial products. Artificial neural networks (much more complex than the introductory networks discussed in this paper) have applications in many fields. Several neural network based systems are being used to evaluate loan applications. Network input include annual income, type of employment, and other information requested on loan application forms. Network output is a score representing credit worthiness, The networks were trained using historical data on loan applications, completed paybacks, and defaults. NETtalk was developed by Terrence Sejnowski and Charles Rosenberg to convert English text into English speech. Some believe it performs as well as the DECtalk expert system on which it was based, Tapes of NETtalk output collected after each training stage bear an uncanny resemblance to the vocalizations of a human child learning to speak. SNOOPE, a hybrid system that combines an expert system with a neural network and special hardware, can detect plastic explosives in sealed luggage. Artificial Neural networks continue to be an active and productive area of research today with many possibilities for future applications. Neural networks operate under a computational model totally different from the traditional computer program executing on a von Neumann machine. Traditional computer programming utilizes a complex CPU and a separate, location-oriented memory store. Knowledge is held in the memory store in discrete data