It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2011 International Workshop of Trajectory Data Mining and Analysis -- TDMA'11. Trajectory data mining has been a hot topic in the interdisciplinary field of computer science and geographic information science. Particularly, recent advancements of information and location-aware technologies have enhanced our capability of collecting individual trajectory data for people, vehicles, or other moving objects. An individual trajectory can reveal the individual's activities in space and over time. Large amounts of individual trajectories could reflect people's preferences and behavior patterns. Thus, trajectory data mining and analysis can be useful to ubiquitous computing. The objective of this workshop is to share knowledge of ongoing research among researchers and practitioners, to present and discuss work related to novel methods of trajectory data mining and analysis, innovative applications, and future trends in the field. 
 
The call for papers attracted 20 submissions from Asia, Europe, and the United States. Our committee accepted 8 papers that cover a variety of topics, including human mobility study, human activity modeling, moving object tracking, trajectory feature mining as well as space-time GIS approaches. We hope that these studies will serve as a valuable reference for trajectory data mining researchers and developers. 
 
We must also thank my colleagues at the Institutes or Universities who helped with the organization as well as the local arrangement co-chair. Special thanks go to Dr. Xing Xie from Microsoft Research Asia and Dr. Shih-Lung Shaw (who also is a guest professor in Wuhan University in China) from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville in United States. Xing discussed a lot with us on the program of this workshop and recommended an appropriate keynote speaker candidate who is a man of honor and integrity in the field of this workshop. Shih-Lung devoted a lot of time to help us prepare the proposal of this workshop.