We are pleased to present the proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN 2010 Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation. PLDI addresses all issues relevant to the design of programming languages, the theory and practice of associated software tools, and experimentation with implementations. As always, the selected papers are a broad spectrum of the most exciting new work in the field. 
 
The pages of this volume represent only the end result of an enormous endeavor involving hundreds of people. Almost all this work is voluntary, with some individuals contributing hundreds of hours of their time to the effort. Together, the 22 members of the Program Committee (PC), the 57 members of the External Review Committee (ERC), and the 118 other individual reviewers consulted for their expertise wrote nearly 1,000 reviews. 
 
Every paper received at least four reviews and many had five or more. With the exception of submissions by the PC, each paper had at least three reviews from the PC and at least one review from an outside expert. For the second year running most of the outside reviews were done by the ERC, which was selected in advance, and additional outside reviews beyond the ERC were requested whenever appropriate or necessary. Reviewing was "first read double-blind," meaning that author identities were withheld from reviewers until they submitted a review. Revealing author names after initial reviews were written allowed reviewers to find related and previous material by the same authors, which helped greatly in many cases in understanding the context of the work, and also ensured that the author feedback and discussions at the PC meeting could be frank and direct. For the first time in many years, we allowed PC members to submit papers to the conference. Submissions co-authored by a PC member were reviewed exclusively by the ERC and other outside reviewers, and these same reviewers decided whether to accept the PC papers; no PC member reviewed a PC paper, and no PC papers were discussed at the PC meeting. 
 
After the reviewing was complete, the program committee met in Stanford, California on January 28th and 29th to select the program. Separately, the ERC decided on the PC papers in email and phone discussions. In the end, 41 of the 206 submissions (20%) were accepted for the conference. We hope you enjoy the program.