It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2011 ACM Workshop on Scientific Cloud Computing -- ScienceCloud2011. This year's workshop continues its tradition of being the premier forum for presentation of new research, development, and deployment efforts in running scientific computing workloads on Cloud Computing infrastructures. The ScienceCloud workshop focuses on the use of cloud-based technologies to meet new compute intensive and data intensive scientific challenges that are not well served by the current supercomputers, grids or commercial clouds. 
 
What architectural changes to the current cloud frameworks (hardware, operating systems, networking and/or programming models) are needed to support science? Dynamic information derived from remote instruments and coupled simulation and sensor ensembles are both important new science pathways and tremendous challenges for current HPC/HTC/MTC technologies. How can cloud technologies enable these new scientific approaches? How are scientists using clouds? Are there scientific HPC/HTC/MTC workloads that are suitable candidates to take advantage of emerging cloud computing resources with high efficiency? What benefits exist by adopting the cloud model, over clusters, grids, or supercomputers? What factors are limiting clouds use or would make them more usable/efficient? 
 
This workshop encourages interaction and cross-pollination between those developing applications, algorithms, software, hardware and networking, emphasizing scientific computing for such cloud platforms. It is an excellent place to help the community define the current state, determine future goals, and define architectures and services for future science clouds. 
 
The call for papers attracted 17 submissions. The program committee accepted 7 papers (41% acceptance rate) that cover a variety of topics, including resource management, applications and storage, and high-performance computing. In addition, the program includes an invited keynote presentation, an invited paper and presentation, and a panel on a topic related to the ScienceCloud workshop venue. We hope that these proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for researchers and developers trying to run scientific applications in the cloud.