Cloud computing is a way of delivery any or all information technology from computing power to computing infrastructure, application, business processes and personal collaboration to an user as a service wherever and whenever they need it. The cloud in cloud computing is set of hardware, network, software, storage, service and interfaces that combine to deliver aspects of computing as a service. Shared resource, software and information are providing to computers and other devices on demand basis. It allows people to do things, they want to on a computer without the need for them to build an IT infrastructure or to understand the underline technology. Cloud computing refers to application and services that run on distributed network using virtualized resources and access by common internet protocols and network standards. It is a moving computing and storage from the user desktop or laptop to remote location where as huge collection of server storage system and network equipment from a seamless infrastructure for an application and storage. Online file storage, social networking sites, webmail and online business application are the example of cloud services. Now a day many people are connected to internet and Social networking sites. Social network have become a powerful platform for sharing and communication that focus on real world relationships. Social networking plays a major role in everyday lives of many people. Facebook is one of the best examples of Social networking sites where more than 400 million active users are connected. Thus Social cloud is a scalable computing model where in virtualized resource provided by users dynamically. In this paper we used concept of MapReduce with Multithreading. MapReduce is a paradigm that allows for massive scalability across hundreds or thousands of servers in a cluster. MapReduce job usually split the input data into independent chunks which are processed by the map tasks in completely parallel manner. It sorts the output of the map which are than input to the reduce task. Using mapping techniques is to find out a good performance in terms of cost and time.