Most existing computer systems Use representations that have meaning to their designers, but do not stand in any relationship to their intended meaning whereby one could say that they had that meaning to the machine itself. I will be concerned here with the question of when symbols*actually have meaning to the machine. This question presupposes the answer to a prior question: why should one maintain a distinction between the meaning of a symbol and rules that simply imply its applicability or inapplicability? I will attempt first to answer this question, from which an answer to the former will follow. Briefly, I will argue that the distinction is necessary in order for a system to make proper adjustments to its knowledge base as a result of experience. In a previous work [1], I have argued that the meaning of a symbol resides in an abstract procedure, not necessarily executable, linking the symbolic expression to the physical world through the (computational / inferential) operations of a physical interpreter operating on a combination of internal representations and sensory/motor connections to the world. Moreover, I argued that this meaning specification (the meaning function) is distinct from the procedures that one ordinarily uses to conclude the truth of a description in everyday situations (the recognition functions). I will assume here that both meaning and recognition functions can be represented by collections of rules of the form "p implies q'', provided that a distinction is maintained by the system between those rules that it applies as part of the meaning (i.e., "meaning postulates") and other implications between symbols (which I will refer to as hypotheses). If a system is to try to develop a model of the world in which it operates, then it needs to record rules of the form "p implies q n where, in the simplest case, p denotes some observable attribute of the world and q denotes some other observable attribute. The utility of such a rule lies in the I will use the word "symbol" here as a generic for the entire class of symbolic expressions used by the system, including designating expressions, predicates, propositions, etc. ability to conclude q without actually perceiving it. Let us call p a sensory symbol (for a system) if there are processes in the world that (physically) cause the system to conclude p or to conclude not p. I will take the physical processes which …