Domain-specific background knowledge is an essential component of many automated reasoning systems including general question-answering systems that reason about some aspect of the world. For example, let us consider answering questions with respect to a paragraph of text. Often it is not possible to appropriately answer the questions with respect to the text without using additional background knowledge. Consider the following text: " John, who always carries his laptop with him, took a flight from Boston to Paris on the morning of Dec 11th. " Now suppose one were to ask the following questions: Q1: Where is John on the evening of Dec 12th? Q2: In which city is John's laptop on the evening of Dec 10th? Q3: In which city is John's laptop on the evening of Dec 12th? To answer the above question, one needs to use the common-sense or domain knowledge (which is unspecified in the text) that normally when one takes a flight from A to B then (s)he will be at B at the end of the flight; and if X has the physical object Y with him and X is in B then Y is also in B. Thus if one were to represent the above story in a knowledge representation formalism , to do appropriate common-sense reasoning he will also need encodings of the necessary background knowledge that is not quite explicitly stated in the story. He can write those encodings himself, but what if he has access to a 'library' of encodings of common-sense knowledge from which he can obtain the necessary encodings with lot less work. The later will definitely make his task a lot easier. Such a library or repository is analogous to the libraries that accompany the compilers of various procedural languages. One can expect that the presence of such a knowledge library will have similar impact in building knowledge bases as program libraries in languages such as Java, C and C++ have had in software development in those languages. In a sense such a library, CYC, developed by a company, already exists. But only small parts of CYC's knowledge base is openly accessible, a larger subset accessible with restrictions and legalities, and its reasoning engine is not publicly available. Moreover , CYC, whose semantics is neither publicly available nor vetted by the research community outside of CYC, was a bit ahead of its time. It is only recently …