The papers in this volume forms the proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Network on Chip Architectures (NoCArc 2009) held on December 12, 2009, in conjunction with the 42nd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-42), December 12-16, 2009, New York, USA. 
 
The first edition of Network on Chip Architectures (NoCArc 2008) Workshop was held in conjunction with MICRO-41 at Lake Como on 8th Nov. 2008. The success of this workshop and enthusiasm of the participants and members of TPC encouraged us to propose the second edition of NoCArc. The second edition of the workshop has also been upgraded to a full day workshop. The main goal of these workshops is to provide a focused forum for researchers to present and discuss innovative ideas and solutions related to design and implementation of complex Systems on Chip (SoCs) using on-chip packet switched network as interconnection or communication infrastructure. We feel that Network on Chip architectures is a very important sub-area within general NoC research and deserves a special and focused attention. NoC architecture area includes all aspects of designing and implementing high performance, efficient and reliable on-chip communication infrastructure for multi-core and multi-processor systems. Area of NoC architectures constitutes a very wide body of research topics including network topology, router architectures at various levels, routing protocols, routing algorithms, low power design techniques, network fault tolerance, NoC reconfiguration, tools for NoC design and evaluation, new technologies for NoC, performance analysis and verification etc. The most famous conference in the NoC area, namely NoC Symposium, is more general in which NoC architecture is only one part. There is a very large community of researchers working on different aspects of NoC architectures and are spread over all the continents. We hope NoCArc workshops will supplement opportunities for these researcher to present, publish and discuss their work and ideas with other researchers. 
 
This year the workshop received 29 submissions. Their authors were from 17 countries spread over the whole world. Almost all the papers have been reviewed by four reviewers. The deliberations were conducted by the Program Committee electronically. The Program Committee selected 11 papers for presentation at the Workshop (an acceptance rate of 38%). The papers were judged based on originality, quality and relevance to the subject area of the Workshop. In addition to the 11 regular papers, the program of the workshop has been enriched with two invited papers from very recognized international experts in the NoC arena and a keynote talk by Prof. Radu Marculescu (CMU). Finally, selected papers will be invited to contribute to a special issue of the Microprocessors and Microsystems (MICPRO) Journal.