This lecture presents some new applications to graph decomposition of a very simple vertex partitioning procedure. Such a procedure allows us to put in the same framework a broad range of applications. The most famous may be the quick-sort. But the rst to use the partition reenement technique may be Hopcroft 7, 1] to design an algorithm for the deterministic automata minimization. Later Paigue and Tarjan 11] proposed a partition reenement based algorithm for the coarsest relational partition that can be viewed as a generalization of the automata minimization problem. Two other applications are also developed: the lexicographic string sort and the doubly lexical ordering of boolean matrices 8, 13]. Spinrad 12] was the rst to investigate the graph partitioning eld. In the last years simpliications and new developments of graph algorithms are based on the partition reenement techniques 9, 10, 5, 6]. Generalizing vertex partitioning to clique partitioning, one can produce a very simple linear interval graph recognition algorithm and a 1 consecutiveness test for boolean matrices 5, 6] avoiding the PQ-tree data-structure 2]. Although this applications are very diierent, they all rely on partition re-nement techniques. To gather them in the same framework, we have developed a generic procedure that can be easily instantiated. Then similar cor-rectness proofs (invariants) and complexity analysis can be done. We propose in this lecture, as applications of this procedure two new decomposition algorithms. Although linear time modular decomposition algorithms already exist 4, 9], simple (easy to program, to maintain. . .) algorithms are still missing. The algorithms we proposed constitute a major step in this direction. The rst one recognizes if a graph is a cograph, the second one produces the modular decomposition tree. They both have a O(n + m log n) time bound. These algorithms rely on the existence of a decomposition tree and compute a factorizing permutation 3]. This new notion leads to a very interesting new approach on the modular decomposition problem. is called a module. A module M is a strong module if and only if M does not strictly overlap any other module. Deenition 1 3] A factorizing permutation is a permutation of the ver-tices such that any strong module appear consecutively in .