With an expected 100% increase, over the next 3 years, of data from non-EDC sources (such as smartphones, wearables and custom apps) the traditional methods of managing data for clinical trials presents executives with a resourcing headache. As such, many companies are looking for lower cost strategies to sure up this shortfall in resourcing. However, citing case studies from other industries, there are new methodologies/technologies in data engineering which could enable automation of much of the “heavy-lifting” currently practiced in clinical data management and statistical programming. This paper discusses the Data Engineering Project within the PhUSE Computational Science (CS) Working Group, Educating For The Future, with a view to educate clinical data managers in data engineering principles so that they can be prepared, equipped and effective in dealing with the coming “data tsunami” heading to the shores of clinical research. INTRODUCTION Did you realise we are living in the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution? Perhaps you have been busy downloading a myriad of “apps” designed to make your life easier or connecting on social media, uncovering relationships and associations you didn’t even know you had. Perhaps you have been shopping a global marketplace, comparing prices, quality and availability, all at your fingertips and in a minutes’ time. While this has been happening, the Fourth Industry Revolution has been evolving at exponential proportions ​. Just ask Siri! The term “Industrie 4.0”, was originated in Germany, as a government-led initiative, to transform manufacturing through advanced digital capability. Thus creating the concept of a “smart factory”, based on four key design principles ​: 1. Interconnection of machines, devices, sensor and people 2. Vast amounts of useful information (data) to drive decision making 3. Technical assistance to aid humans, for example to visualise data or to perform tasks that may be of safety concern for a human. 4. The use of cyber-physical systems to make decisions on their own and to perform tasks as autonomously as possible. Emerging from the premise of “Industrie 4.0” is the advent of the term “The Fourth Industrial Revolution” (also referred to as “4IR” or “I4.0”). This term originated in 2016 when described by Klaus Schwab (Founder and Executive Chairman of the World Economic Forum), as a “technological revolution that will fundamentally alter the way we live, work, and relate to one another”. Klaus goes on to describe it as a digital revolution with innovative uses of a combination of technologies that build upon the premise of the third revolution (i.e. electronics and information technology to automate production). As a result, emerging technologies have brought forth advancements in fields such as ​artificial intelligence, robotics, the Internet of Things, autonomous vehicles, 3D printing, nanotechnology, biotechnology, materials science, energy storage, and quantum computing. This rapid evolution will undoubtedly affect industries world-wide, already disrupting many industries, such as travel agencies, video rentals and bookstores​ . The pharmaceutical industry is also experiencing the impacts of I4.0. Digital and mobile technologies has brought on significant advancements in data acquisition and accessibility as it relates to health care and patient data. As reported in the Tufts-Veeva eClinical Landscape study in 2017, data coming from sources such as, smartphones, custom applications, and mobile health are expected to double in the next 3 years ​. Therefore requiring greater capabilities in handling large volumes of data, as well as data from coming in through various data streams and 1 PhUSE EU Connect 2018 formatting. As with other industries, data will become a critical asset to their business and the effective utilisation of this data can play a critical role in driving growth in the business and bringing novel therapies to the patients who need them. In this paper, we will focus on the works of the Data Engineering Project within the Educating For The Future Working Group. With the formation of the Working Group in early 2018, the team had taken on the mission to explore how data engineering techniques, successfully deployed in other industries, could be utilised in the pharmaceutical industry, with a goal to ​facilitate the education ​of the pharmaceutical industry on these techniques. We will share with you some introductory information about Data Engineering and Data Science and explore how embracing new data engineering techniques may affect the industry culture. You will learn about use cases of Data Engineering in other industries and how advances in digital capability have affected their business model. We will also share some of the many software packages and tools available to enable automation, commonly used in Data Engineering and Data Science. Finally we will reflect on the benefits that data standardisation has brought to the pharmaceutical industry and share our vision for disseminating information to facilitate your learning going forward. DATA ENGINEERING To start this learning journey, exploring the term “Data Engineering” opens the door to the vast opportunities and roles available today centered around data. In doing a simple search on the internet, ​“what is data engineering?​”, one will find many posts expressing their understanding of Data Engineering with some variation but also some similarity. However, what is clear is that Data Engineering encompasses the many considerations that need to be taken into account to optimally curate, transform, secure and disseminate data suitable for analysis. As technology and tools have become more advanced, building such a platform and infrastructure requires engineers and architects of both general and specific expertise. The Data Engineer combines knowledge in areas such as software development, infrastructure, data architecture, data warehousing, cloud technology and data cleaning in order to design, build and test solutions that define the pipelines of data throughout the enterprise, making the data accessible to the organisation.​ [5] [27] [31] Optimised Data Engineering appropriately balances the efficiency of an automated process against the cost of development and maintenance of that process, ensuring repetitive processes that require humans to write code, press keys, cut-and-paste and update documents are minimised or eliminated. DATA SCIENCE Often paired with the term “Data Engineering” is also the term “Data Science”. According to Kelle O’Neal and Charles Roe: “Data Science allows enterprises the ability to turn their data assets into a narrative. Data Science allows that narrative to be expanded across timelines, in different data spaces that trace from the past into the future, with much more involved questions and answers about an enterprise, different potential outcomes, and repercussions based on recommendations. Data Science employs a range of mathematical, business, and scientific techniques to solve complex problems about an organisation’s data assets.” ​ In contrast, the focus of the Data Engineer is on the process from data curation to dissemination and the focus of the Data Scientist is on the analytics of the data, thus extracting knowledge from the data. To achieve quality data capture, near-real-time accessibility and meaningful analytics, one cannot function without the other, and effective teamwork optimises the value of each role. As such, an analytics team would be composed of distinct roles/capabilities​ : ● Data Engineers (in areas such as database architecture, database development, machine learning architecture, ETL scripting , etc.) ● Data Scientists ● Business Analysts Data Engineering brings together the broad expertise, of these roles, to ensure the data are curated and accessible to the Data Scientist, and in our environment today, this process is becoming more and more complex. Therefore, 2 PhUSE EU Connect 2018 expertise in curating big-data and data of varying formats (structured and unstructured) is a critical core competency to optimise the potential impact of these digital assets (i.e. the data). The Data Scientist works deep in the data, utilizing various tools and techniques to discover patterns in the data that may drive decision making for the business. Optimising utilisation of the data to enable accurate conclusions can bear greater value to the organisation. As an example, per Tom Eunice’s post, “a fraud-detection algorithm may be very accurate when based on many months of historical data. However, months of historical data may not always be available. Designing a fraud-detection model that is still accurate using historical data from only a few days would be of more use and more practical to implement.” ​ The Business Analyst helps the Data Scientist understand the meaning of the data and the relevance of any discovered relationships. Initially, uncovering relationships in the data and upon further investigation, identifies meaningful patterns that may reveal information that otherwise may not have been known. ​ As you will see in the sections to follow, the full complement of the roles in an analytics team is what drives the business value. One discipline without the other (e.g. data engineering without data science) will result in missed opportunities. In the sections to follow, we often refer to Data Engineering, however, due to the close ties to Data Science, some examples elude to both Data Engineering and Data Science. USE CASES FROM OTHER INDUSTRIES In this section, we present three use cases from the transportation, retail, and agricultural industry. The use cases illustrate the importance and usage of Data Engineering. In each example the data collected, the consumer of the data, and the value of the organisation is reviewed. Similarities and potential applications to the pharmaceutical industry are discussed. UBER When