This paper describes the history of the Groovy programming language. At the time of Groovy’s inception, Java was a dominant programming language with a wealth of useful libraries. Despite this, it was perceived by some to be evolving slowing and to have shortcomings for scripting, rapid prototyping and when trying to write minimalistic code. Other languages seemed to be innovating faster than Java and, while overcoming some of Java’s shortcomings, used syntax that was less familiar to Java developers. Integration with Java libraries was also non-optimal. Groovy was created as a complementary language to Java—its dynamic counterpart. It would look and feel like Java but focus on extensibility and rapid innovation. Groovy would borrow ideas from dynamic languages like Ruby, Python and Smalltalk where needed to provide compelling JVM solutions for some of Java’s shortcomings. Groovy supported innovation through its runtime and compile-time metaprogramming capabilities. It supported simple operator overloading, had a flexible grammar and was extensible. These characteristics made it suitable for growing the language to have new commands (verbs) and properties (nouns) specific to a particular domain, a so called Domain Specific Language (DSL). While still intrinsically linked with Java, over time Groovy has evolved from a niche dynamic scripting language into a compelling mainstream language. After many years as a principally dynamically-typed language, a static nature was added to Groovy. Code could be statically type checked or when dynamic features weren’t needed, they could be turned off entirely for Java-like performance. A number of nuances to the static nature came about to support the style of coding used by Groovy developers. Many choices made by Groovy in its design, later appeared in other languages (Swift, C#, Kotlin, Ceylon, PHP, Ruby, Coffeescript, Scala, Frege, TypeScript and Java itself). This includes Groovy’s dangling closure, Groovy builders, null-safe navigation, the Elvis operator, ranges, the spaceship operator, and flow typing. For most languages, we don’t know to what extent Groovy played a part in their choices. We do know that Kotlin took inspiration from Groovy’s dangling closures, builder concept, default it parameter for closures, templates and interpolated strings, null-safe navigation and the Elvis operator. The leadership, governance and sponsorship arrangements of Groovy have evolved over time, but Groovy has always been a successful highly collaborative open source project driven more by the needs of the community than by a vision of a particular company or person.