Welcome to the ACM SIGCOMM 2005 Workshops!This year we are pleased to present a program of four excellent workshops: (1) Workshop on experimental approaches to wireless network design and analysis (E-WIND), (2) Workshops on economics of peer-to-peer systems (P2PECON), (3) Workshop on mining data networks (MineNet), and (4) Workshop on delay tolerant networking and related networks (WDTN).Workshops are becoming an integral part of the ACM SIGCOMM week-long Data Communications Festival and their goal is to enhance the ACM SIGCOMM conference technical program and promote cross-disciplinary interactions. In response to the call for proposals, we received a record of 12 workshop proposals, 4 of which were accepted after a review by the SIGCOMM 2005 organizing committee. Reaching out to other communities was probably one of the key factors in our selection process. E-WIND brings together the wireless and data networking communities; P2PECON has been successfully organized in the past two years as an independent workshop and brings together researchers from economics, distributed systems, and data networking; MineNet focuses on the analysis of the vast amount of data that can be extracted from the network and crosses the boundaries of networking, data mining, statistics, and machine learning. WDTN was selected as an emerging topic in data networking that could benefit from a focused workshop that will update researchers on the latest results in the area.There is a significant amount of logistics and co-ordination required between the four workshops and the ACM SIGCOMM 2005 conference and I would like to thank all the members of the SIGCOMM 2005 organizing committee and several volunteers who made it possible. First, I would like to thank Roch Guerin, Joe Touch, and Jennifer Rexford, for all their guidance during the workshop organization process and for being ready to assist at any time. Jaudelice C. de Oliveira and Honghui Lu managed the local arrangements. Steve Weber was always available to update the web-site with the workshop information, and Andreas Terzis and Christos Papadopoulos handled the registration and financial issues. Saswati Sarkar, and Lisa Tolles at Sheridan Printing led the difficult task of producing the combined proceedings.Last but not least, I would like to thank the organizers of the four workshops: Ed Knightly, Christophe Diot, Emin Gun Sirer, Eric Friedman, Shubhabrata Sen, Chuanyi Ji, Debanjan Saha, Joe McCloskey, S. Keshav, and Kevin Fall. Their hard work together with the excellent contributions of all authors were key in making these workshops successful.