Welcome to the Fifth ACM International Workshop on Mobility in the Evolving Internet Architecture (MobiArch 2010) in Chicago! With recent developments in wireless access, sensor, and mobile device technologies, the mobility of users, terminals, and networks has become an indispensable component of today's Internet vision. Wireless access devices already outnumber stationary Internet hosts and an increasing share of traffic traverses at least one wireless link. These trends can be expected to continue in the near future and call for a reexamination of the architectural design of the current and future internets. The current TCP/IP architecture was originally designed for communication between stationary mainframes and servers, and later used for wired PCs. While Mobile IP and the IPv6 mobility extensions have sought to evolve the current architecture to provide support for connections under device mobility, their adoption has lagged behind expectations. This lack of adoption and additional challenges posed by mobility have led to renewed interest in a clean-slate design that comprehensively addresses mobility, free of existing architectural constraints. A clean-slate design requires rethinking current architectural foundations like the end-to-end principle as well as associated Internet business models. It requires addressing issues such as efficient mobility management and optimization, locator-identifier split, multi-homing, security, transport over wireless access networks and related operational/deployment concerns. Moreover, the architecture will also need to include new services to meet the changed needs of the majority of mobile applications. 
 
The design of an architecture that addresses this broad range of concerns necessarily requires interdisciplinary work spanning areas such wireless networks, distributed systems, internetworking, and security as well as benefitting from feedback regarding economic or legal aspects. Thus, building on the success of the previous events, MobiArch 2010 will again seek to stimulate interaction and collaboration among disciplines to facilitate work towards new mobility architectures.