“Memory fades. Even your most important moments slip away over time. And when you die, they will disappear forever. But not anymore. Surgically implanted into your child before birth, the Zoë Chip will record every moment, from birth to death, enabling their entire life to be enjoyed again and again by future generations.”1 This description of the film The Final Cut does not sound that much like science fiction in the age of ubiquitous computation. As Ulrik Ekman has shown in Throughout, contemporary life is permeated with a wide range of conspicuous and inconspicuous forms of technical mediation, ranging from micro-cameras to radio-frequency identification (RFID) chips, from pervasive surveillance grids to mobile and locative media to augmented realities, interactive cloths and ambient urban computing (Ekman 2013). In this chapter I will focus on one particular aspect of the ways in which ubiquitous computing intervenes in our life, namely in negotiating a more complex understanding of temporal relations. The Final Cut may present a world were brain implanted cameras allow total recall of our lives, reproducing it like a Borgesian map (Borges 1999, 325). However, in order to sustain and make sense of life and death, we still need to select, cut, and edit. These memory processes are increasingly technologically mediated as well. As Niklas Luhman asserts, in our high tech society, memory and temporal relations have become increasingly complex processes that call for new ways of understanding temporal dynamics.2 Films such as The Final Cut and contemporary cinema more generally provide us with images and stories that tell us something about these complex enfoldments of time mediated by ubiquitous computing. In an engagement with Gilles Deleuze’s cinema books of the 1980s, I have described contemporary cinema as “the neuroimage” (Deleuze 1986; 1989; Pisters 2012). The thought of the neuro-image is indebted to Deleuze’s philosophy of cinema and time but brings this to a digital epoch. In order to allow a more explicit technological, critical, and complex engagement with cinema as co-constitutive of complex temporalizations and eventualizations of life, this chapter stages an encounter, perhaps surprising, between Deleuze and Bernard Stiegler’s Technics and Time (Stiegler 2009; 2011).