Global advertising is projected to exceed half-a-trillion dollars by the year 2010. Although online advertising is currently only a small part of this large enterprise, it is growing at a rapid pace. The explosion in the number of participants in the online advertising marketplace has generated large volumes of data and exciting data mining problems. Earlier research on search logs, web pages, social network and blogs had focused on information organization, retrieval and understanding. Recently there has been strong research interest in the advertisement angle to all these information sources. 
 
Researchers have tackled several challenging problems on online monetization like sponsored search, contextual advertising for web pages, understanding user intent and user demographics for advertisements, mining user reviews for product pricing, predicting click-through rates for ads, just to name a few. Further, the on-line and offline advertising worlds are fast converging; for example, digital marketplaces are migrating from the online world to TV and radio, and audience understanding work from offline media is trickling into the online realm. Since data mining researchers and practitioners in all these areas come from different communities, there is strong need for a single forum to bring together people involved in all aspects of digital advertising. We are addressing this need with the Workshop on Data Mining and Audience Intelligence for Advertising. 
 
The goal of this workshop is to not only increase communication between researchers working on seemingly different pieces of the advertisement pie, but to encourage data mining researchers to bring new ideas from related areas to solve the numerous challenges faced by the rapidly changing digital advertising industry. We want to bring together auction theorists, social network researchers, natural language researchers, information retrieval experts, audience understanding researchers, television advertisement analysts and many others, to promote a fruitful exchange of ideas to advance the field.