It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2011 12th International Workshop on Principles on Software Evolution and 7th ERCIM Workshop on Software Evolution -- IWPSE-EVOL 2011. Research in software evolution and evolvability has been thriving in the past years, with a constant stream of new formalisms, tools, techniques, and development methodologies trying, on the one hand, to facilitate the way long-lived successful software systems can be changed in order to cope with demands from users and the increasing complexity and volatility of the contexts in which such systems operate, and, on the other hand, to understand and if possible control the processes by which demand for these changes come about. 
 
The IWPSE-EVOL 2011 workshop is the merger of the 12th International Workshop on Principles of Software Evolution (IWPSE) and the 7th annual ERCIM Workshop on Software Evolution (EVOL). The objectives of this joint event is to provide a forum to discuss a wide range of topics in software evolution, to foster the better understanding of the nature of software evolution, and to accelerate research activities on the subject. 
 
This year's edition of IWPSE-EVOL is held in conjunction with ESEC/FSE, the joint meeting of the European Software Engineering Conference and the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, as it has been the case multiple times in the past, most recently in 2005, 2007, and 2009. The IWPSE and EVOL workshops have been held together since 2009. 
 
The IWPSE-EVOL 2011 workshop has attracted 37 submissions from 87 authors. The 27 program committee members and 16 external reviewers selected 17 submissions for presentation and publication. The accepted submissions include 9 full research papers, 6 short or position papers, and 2 tool demonstration paper. The acceptance rate for full research papers was 42%. 
 
The workshop program also features a keynote talk by an internationally recognized expert in software engineering, software maintenance and evolution: Prem Devanbu. Prem will talk about his latest research developments in Mining Software Repositories, an area which has a lot of overlap with Software Evolution. 
 
The 2011 edition of IWPSE-EVOL is dedicated to the memory of Prof. Meir M. "Manny" Lehman, who sadly passed away in December 2010. Manny Lehman was known as the "Father of software evolution", since his seminal work with Les Belady on the development of IBM's OS/360. Their early empirical studies gave birth to the widely known Laws of Software Evolution. Manny was also recognized by the software engineering community at large, being program co-chair of the 4th ICSE in 1975, and general chair of the 8th ICSE in 1985.