On behalf of the Program Committee we are pleased to welcome you to the 2010 International Symposium on Computer Architecture held in Saint Malo, France. 
 
It has been a great honor for us to serve as PC chairs of the prestigious ISCA conference. The ISCA conference is well known in the community as the forerunner in Computer Architecture because of its unique ability to provide, under one roof, maximum exposure for the newest ideas in the field. It is the responsibility of this conference to shape the direction Computer Architecture will take in the future and to promote its enormous potential. 
 
Traditionally, the technical program of ISCA included some of the best research work in Computer Architecture, from the academia and industry. This year's ISCA program is as strong as ever, a testimonial to the continued vitality of Computer Architecture research. This year's program features papers on today's "hot" computer architecture topics, including energy efficiency designs, caches, memory subsystems, accelerator architecture, evaluation techniques, reliability and fault tolerance. This year we feature a unique QOB (Quantitative Out of the Box) session that emphasizes qualitative new innovative papers vs. thorough quantitative analysis papers. We hope you will enjoy and learn from the presentations and the papers. 
 
The conference papers selection is the fruit of a long and rigorous process. The conference is grateful to all of the authors for the time and effort invested in submitting their best work. 245 papers were submitted to the conference, out of which the Program Committee selected 44 papers to be presented in the ISCA 2010 conference (18% acceptance rate). 
 
We have been fortunate to recruit an outstanding Program Committee of 46 members that took the overwhelming task of selecting the best papers. Committee members contributed their time and expertise towards the goal of making this conference a success. We would like to deeply thank each and every Program Committee member. Only now we understand the enormous load they took on themselves: reviewing the submitted papers (we performed a total of 1200 reviews), interacting with other PC members and participating in the full day PC meeting marathon at the O'Hare Airport in Chicago (February 20th 2010).