It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2011 Internet Measurement Conference - IMC'11. What started in 2001 as a small workshop, organized by a handful of dedicated individuals and sponsored by ACM SIGCOMM, has quickly grown into the premier venue for the dissemination of measurement-driven networking research. In putting together this year's program, we explicitly tried (with varying degrees of success) to uphold IMC's best traditions - encouraging reappraisal of previous results, fostering papers that assess emerging uses (or mis-uses) of the Internet, and promoting the development of innovative new methodologies for increasing our understanding of the Internet and related networked communication systems. As in the recent past, the program consists of a mix of short and long papers to encourage both early exposure to new ideas and deep treatment of topics. 
 
The following IMC "facts and firsts" are all signs of a vibrant and thriving community. This year we received a record submission of 221 papers (111 long and 110 short papers). This represents an increase of 5% over 2010 and is comparable to the total number of submissions received by the annual ACM SIGCOMM Conference. The technical program was chosen by a highly skilled and dedicated program committee (PC) of 34 researchers from academia and industry and is the outcome of a thorough reviewing process. During the first round of this process, each paper received three reviews. The resulting 100 or so most competitive submissions received two additional reviews during a second round, after which some 64 papers were chosen to be discussed for inclusion in the final program at the PC meeting, held at the Shannon Laboratory at AT&T Labs-Research in Florham Park, NJ, on July 22, 2011. This meeting was attended by all but five PC members and resulted in 42 accepted papers (28 long and 14 short papers) that will be presented as part of this year's three-day conference in Berlin. Paper notifications were emailed within hours of the end of the PC meeting. 
 
To increase the transparency and accountability of the IMC reviewing process, IMC'11 performed a first-of-its-kind reviewing experiment whereby authors of accepted papers were given a choice to have the significant (verbatim) portions of the reviews that their papers received during the reviewing process (together with a short response from the authors) published alongside the final version of their papers. With the full backing of the IMC's steering committee and the enthusiastic support of the entire PC for this experiment, we are happy to inform you that all but one set of authors opted for participating in this experiment. As a result, readers of this year's IMC Proceedings have a unique opportunity to see the IMC reviewing process "in action" and we hope that this level of transparency provides some useful insight into how IMC reviewers assess the relevance or importance of work in this area while remaining anonymous. IMC is considering adopting this experimental reviewing process as a new standard, so we would greatly appreciate any feedback in any form from readers, authors, or PC members about their views or experience with this approach to improving transparency and accountability. 
 
Separate from the technical program, IMC'11 will also experiment with a new one-hour "News and Community Feedback Session". The session will consist of short presentations or announcements on topics that are relevant to the IMC audience and is intended to "take the pulse" of the community in terms of efforts, activities and topics that should be encouraged to maintain a vibrant community engaged in relevant and cutting-edge measurement-driven networking research.