Welcome to the 2011 Workshop on Dynamic Distributed Data-Intensive Applications, Programming Abstractions, and Systems (3DAPAS). This workshop operates at the triple point of dynamic, distributed and data-intensive (3D) attributes. It also focuses on innovative approaches for scalability in the end-to-end real-time processing of scientific data. We refer to 3D applications as those are data-intensive, need to support and respond to dynamic data, and, either are fundamentally, or need to be, distributed. 
 
There has previously been a lot of effort in managing and distributing tasks where computational loads are dominant. Such applications have after all, been historically the drivers of "grid" computing. There has, however, been relatively less effort on tasks where the computational load is matched by the data load, or even dominated by the data load. For such tasks to be able to operate at scale, there are conceptually simple run-time trade-offs that need to be made, such as determining whether to move data to compute versus keeping data localized and move computational tasks to operate on the data in situ, or possibly neither, and with data regenerated on-the-fly. Due to fluctuating resource availability and capabilities, as well as insufficient prior information about application requirements, such decisions must be made at run-time. Furthermore, resource, connectivity and/or storage constraints may require the data to be manipulated intransit. Currently it is very difficult to implement these dynamic decisions or the underlying mechanisms in a general-purpose and scalable fashion. 
 
Although the increasing volumes and complexity of data will make many problems data-load-dominated, the computational requirements will still be high. In practice, data-intensive applications will encompass data-driven applications. For example, many data-driven applications will involve computational activities triggered as a consequence of independently created data; thus it is imperative for an application to be able to respond to unplanned changes in data load or content. Therefore, understanding how to support dynamic computations is a fundamental, but currently missing element in data-intensive computing. 3DAPAS builds upon a three-year research theme on Distributed Programming Abstractions (DPA), which has held a series of related workshops including but not limited to e-Science 2008, EuroPar 2008 and the CLADE series. 3DAPAS also draws on ideas from the ongoing 3DPAS Research Theme funded by the NSF and UK EPSRC. The workshop includes a keynote presentation, an invited paper, and two peerreviewed papers.