Almost ten years after the first proposals, it is undeniable: The use of virtual technologies has radically changed the perception of distributed infrastructures. Most users can consider distributed infrastructures as a large playground where they can launch as many virtual machines as they want to compose and recompose their environment on demand. However, using virtualization as the main building block of distributed systems is still limited by several challenges, including the virtualization of the network and the storage facilities, the performance impact on HPC applications as well as the scalability, the reliability and the security of cloud computing platforms. Building on previous successful and highly attended VTDC workshops, this 6th edition will continue to be a forum for the exchange of ideas and experiences on the use of virtualization technologies in distributed computing, the challenges and opportunities offered by the development of virtual systems themselves, as well as case studies of applications of virtualization. 
 
Like in the previous editions, the core of VTDC is its technical program. We would like to thank both the members of the Program Committee and the authors for their contributions. This year, our workshop has two sessions -- the first focusing on virtualization internals and the second on the use of virtualization in Enterprise and HPC clouds. In addition, we are very grateful to Prof. Angelos Bilas (University of Crete -- FORTH) and Dr. Helge Meinhard (Platform and Engineering Services Leader at CERN IT) for their invited talks on the challenges of using virtualization in distributed infrastructures. 
 
It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the ACM Workshop on Virtualization Technologies in Distributed Computing -- VTDC 2012. We hope that you will enjoy the scientific and technical contents and that the workshop will give you a valuable opportunity to discuss ideas and future collaborations with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world.