The 2003 International Workshop on Web Information and Data Management (WIDM 2003) is the fifth in a series of workshops on Web Information and Data Management held in conjunction with the International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM). The objective of the workshop is to bring together researchers, industrial practitioners, and developers to study how web information can be extracted, stored, analyzed, and processed to provide useful knowledge to the end users for various advanced database applications. WIDM 2003 has received sponsorship from both ACM SIGIR and ACM SIGMIS.The call for papers resulted in the submission of 54 papers from 18 countries around the world. All papers were thoroughly reviewed by the program committee and external reviewers. The program committee accepted 15 full papers and 10 short papers for the two-days' program. The authors of these papers are from 12 countries. The 25 accepted papers were divided into 7 sessions: "Web Data Extraction and Structure Mining", "XML Data Modeling and Storage", "Tools for Integrating and Querying Web Information", "Web Clustering and Usage Mining", "XML and Information Integration", "Intelligent Web Information Access", and "Query and View Processing." In addition, the WIDM 2003 program also includes an invited talk on "Business-Aware Management: the Next Frontier for Web Services" by Dr Fabio Casati from Palo Alto HP Labs.The workshop would not be a success without the support from the Centre for Advanced Information Systems of the Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. The center provided both the manpower and computing resources to host the workshop web site. Zehua Liu, a graduate student at the Nanyang Technological University, did a wonderful job running the ConfMan paper submission and review system. We would like express our appreciation to his assistance.We are also indebted to the CIKM 2003's organizing committee for its support. We are particularly thankful to Eun-Kyo Park for managing the proceedings coordination as well as financial and registration matters, and to Il-Yeol Song for coordinating WIDM 2003 with the other workshops.