The KDD-09 Workshop on Statistical and Relational Learning in Bioinformatics (StReBio) will be held at the University of Antwerp, Paris, France, on Sunday June, 28th, 2009. This second edition of the workshop is intended to bring together researchers from both the fields of statistical and relational learning and the field of bioinformatics. Hopefully this will contribute to communication between these communities and will stimulate the development of new relational techniques for application in the biological domain. 
 
Bioinformatics is a domain where information is naturally represented in terms of relations between heterogeneous objects. Modern experimentation and data acquisition techniques make the study of complex interactions in biological systems possible, yielding huge amounts of data. This raises challenges for the machine learning and data mining communities, where interest in relational and statistical learning has been growing in the last few years. Apart from the amount of (relational) data, the information is often incomplete, and measurements may be noisy, creating additional challenges. 
 
We have tried to choose a workshop format which promotes as much as possible the exchange of ideas. Aspects which can help to achieve our goal are the problem statement presentations, the time allocated in the program for questions and discussion, the informal proceedings and the workshop website (http://www.cs.kuleuven.be/~dtai/events/StReBio09/) where the abstracts, papers and some presentations will be available. 
 
We selected eight papers for full presentation. All these contributions, in varying degrees, fit the format of the workshop: they apply statistical or relational techniques to problems from the biological domain. Furthermore, we accepted one problem statement to be presented at the workshop. The idea of the problem statement track is to stimulate the interaction between biologists and computer scientists by presenting biological problems in a more mathematical form, making the structure and the source of uncertainty of the data more explicit. We hope that the problem statements will lead to lively discussions and the exchange of ideas. Finally, a tentative solution to a problem statement from last year's edition is presented. We feel honoured to have David Balding and as invited speaker, who is an authority in the field of statistical genetics.