It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 7th Workshop on Declarative Aspects and Applications of Multicore Programming -- DAMP 2012. DAMP is a series of one-day workshops seeking to explore ideas in declarative programming language design that will greatly simplify parallel programming, namely in the context of multicore architectures. 
 
Parallel programming has become mainstream. Parallel processors are nowadays the key to performance in mobile, desktop, and enterprise environments. Parallel GPUs with thousands of CPUs are widely used. Programming such machines in traditional languages is hard. Declarative languages, which control the use of side effects, can greatly simplify development of parallel programs by eliminating or limiting data races. Such languages include purely functional languages, (constraint-) logic programming languages, many data-driven or reactive languages, and domain specific languages (e.g., MapReduce). 
 
DAMP provides a forum for discussion and collaboration between researchers interested in declarative parallel programming. Topics range from language design to practical experience and applications. Starting this year, DAMP welcomes both long and short papers. Long papers provide a venue for more finished work. Short papers are designed to provide a more informal venue that allows for discussion of early work. 
 
A total of ten papers were submitted to DAMP 2012, of which five were long papers and five were short papers. Four of the long papers were selected for presentation as long papers, and one was selected for inclusion as short paper in the proceedings. Two short papers are also included in the proceedings. The remaining short papers can be perused from the workshop site. All papers were carefully reviewed by three members of the program committee. We were very happy with the quality and diversity of the submissions. We thank all the authors who submitted papers for their effort and contribution. All papers were reviewed by three members of the program committee. We thank the program committee members for their effort and valuable time in reviewing the papers and ensuring the quality expected from an ACM SIGPLAN-sponsored event. In addition to the refereed papers, we are delighted to have keynote talks by Douglas Carmean (Intel) and by Simon Peyton Jones (Microsoft).