These proceedings include the papers accepted for the First International Workshop on Model Driven Service Engineering and Data Quality and Security (MoSE+DQS 2009), which was held in Hong Kong, on November 6th 2009. 
 
This workshop included two different tracks focusing on Model Driven Service Engineering (MoSE track) and Data Quality and Security (DQS track). 
 
Regarding the first issue we can see that Model-Driven Engineering (MDE) deals with the provision of models, transformations between them and code generators to address software development. One of the main advantages of model-driven approaches is the provision of a conceptual structure where the models used by business managers and analysts can be traced towards more detailed models used by software developers. This kind of alignment between high level business specifications and the lower level Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) is a crucial aspect in the field of Service-Oriented Development (SOD) where meaningful business services and business process specifications are those that can give support to real business environment usually changing with increasing speed. SOD has become currently in one of the major research topics in the field of software engineering, leading the appearance of a novel and emerging discipline called Service Engineering (SE), which aim to bring together benefits of SOA and Business Process Management (BPM). SE focuses on the identification of service (a client-provider interaction that creates value for the client) as first class elements for the software construction. The convergence of SE with MDE holds out the promise of rapid and accurate development of software that serves software users' goals. 
 
On the other hand, Information technologies are becoming one of the most important aspects for organizations. The business value of the data stored in the company databases has been growing to become one of the most important assets of the company. These data represent one crucial asset for tactic, strategic and operational decisions. Due to this important role of the data, companies should assure the access to the data to several users guaranteeing the right levels of quality they need to accomplish the task they have to do. 
 
Data Quality is a crucial issue in assessing the quality of business decisions support systems. Many aspects are related with the quality of the data, such as integrity, completeness, actuality and several other factors that make this kind of quality a multidimensional issue and a difficult issue. Data Security is another crucial aspect on information systems, not only because it affects Data Quality, but also because current information systems store sensitive and private data that should be treated rightly. Also, as Data Quality and Data Security are not independent concepts, the relationship between both concepts is worth being analyzed in order to give organizations some tools that can help in assuring both data dimensions. 
 
The Workshop on Model Driven Service Engineering and Data Quality and Security intends to provide a forum for researchers and practitioners working on different issues related to SE in conjunction with MDE, boarding open research problems in this area as well as practical experiences. The workshop is also focused on auditing, measuring, predicting, evaluating, controlling, assuring and improving the quality and security of data. Particular interests include methods, modelling languages, development methodologies and techniques in these fields. 
 
The six full papers (an acceptance rate of 54.5%) and four short papers were selected very carefully by the Program Committee in order to ensure a high quality workshop.