A theory of short term spectral analysis, synthesis, and modification is presented with an attempt at pointing out certain practical and theoretical questions. The methods discussed here are useful in designing filter banks when the filter bank outputs are to be used for synthesis after multiplicative modifications are made to the spectrum. I N THIS paper, some practical and theoretical questions are considered concerning the analysis of and synthesis from a signal's short term spectrum. The short term spectrum, or time spectrum, are those signals which result from analyzing a single input signal with a set of filters which are selective over a range of frequencies [ l ] -[3]. In the case of analysis by a spectrum analyzer, the filters are either spaced contiguously or one filter is heterodyned over the frequency range of interest. For many applications, this is quite adequate. However, when one is interested in both analysis and synthesis, a more rigorous approach is in order. In this paper, we shall restrict ourselves to the case of uniformly spaced, symmetric bandpass filters. We are also not concerned with bandwidth reduction. In general, the channel capacity in the short term spectral domain will be greater than that of the original signal. We will be interested, however, in being able to modify the short term spectrum in either its phase or amplitude content without introducing undesired distortion in the synthesized signal. Previous filter bank analysis-synthesis techniques have been given by Flanagan and Golden [ l ] , Schafer and Rabiner [2], and Portnoff [3]. Our approach differs in several important ways. Previous approaches have used contiguous filter banks in the analysis process. We shall show that this results in an undersampled spectrum and, as a result, synthesis becomes very sensitive to phase or delay modifications. We will then show that by using a properly sampled overlapping filter set, we may avoid this sensitivity. By recognizing the need for a greater number of filters, both the analysis and synthesis procedures are simplified. However, the number of samples of data in the short term spectral domain that results per sample of input data is greater than one; thus, the relevance of the present method to bandwidth reduction remains unclear. A second important difference between our approach and that of others is during synthesis. All previous authors [ l ] [3] have summed the filter outputs for the synthesis; we synthesize in a way that is similar to the overlap add method [4] . As a result, our method does not require an interpolating filter prior to the add, and @us, there is a savings in the Manuscript received September 29, 1976;revised January 25, 1977. The author is with Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ 07974. amount of additional filtering. In our method, only a small number of adds (four fo'r a Hamming window) per sample are required. The major advantage of the present scheme is that it allows arbitrary modifications of the short term spectrum. These modifications may be directly interpreted in the time domain as a.filter whose impulse response is given by the Fourier transform of the modification. The price paid for allowing modifications of the spectrum w i t b e seen to be an increase in the number of frequency channels required. A modification made prior to the usual method of synthesis, namely, of adding the filter outputs of a contiguous filter set, does not satisfy the convolution rule. ANALYSIS OF SHORT TERM SPECTRA We have defined the short term spectra as an output derived from a bank of filters. At each filter frequency, we require two filters which have the same magnitude response but differ in phase by 90". It is well known [2] , [3] that a filter bank of this form may be realized by weighting the input signal x(t) by a sliding low-pass filter impulse response w ( t ) and Fourier transforming the result. Thus, we have