This presentation will chronicle the growth in the use of computers at Bentley College both in the computer information systems curriculum as well as •other business departments and liberal arts departments. The first speaker will review the dramatic rise in course utilization of computers and will focus on this course oriented computing which had as its main objective providing hardware and software support for the following: (i) the Computer Information Systems program which has 1,000 majors, (2) the campus-wide computer literacy project which required all students to take two CIS courses, and (3) the non-CIS faculty in their development of computer applications in their courses. The second speaker will discuss the transition from course-oriented computing to student-oriented computing. It is our hypothesis that in a business environment the user determines when a computer is needed to solve a business problem rather than having students react to course assignments and the professor dictating when a computer is to be used. In order to test out this hypothesis, the College conducted a pilot study during 1984-1985 wherein 115 Freshmen students were equipped with portable micro-computers to use in three selected Freshmen courses. This speaker will detail the structure of this experiment and describe the related course activities. This third speaker will present the detailed findings of various instruments that were administered both to a control group of students as well as the pilot group. Each of these groups was pre-tested at the beginning of the Fall semester al]d post-tested at the end of the Fall semester to determine what their initial attitudes towards computing were, as well as the change in attitudes following a semester long use of computers either in a lab or a personal setting. In addition, survey instruments were administered to the parents of the pilot-test students, as well as the faculty involved in the pilot test. The presentation wi]l conclude with a discussion of the benefits of student-oriented computing based on the analysis of the first semester results.