The May 1981 Survey will mark the 152nd Survey of Consumer Attitudes. Initiated in 1946, the purpose of the surveys is to measure changes in consumer attitudes and expectations, to understand why these changes occur, and to evaluate how they relate to consumer decisions to save, to borrow, or to make discretionary purchases under changing conditions.Each survey contains approximately 40 core questions, each of which probes a different aspect of consumer confidence. Open-ended questions are asked concerning evaluations of expectations about personal finances, employment, price changes, and the national business situation. Additional questions probe for the respondents appraisal of present market conditions for houses, and other durables. Demographic data obtained in these surveys include income, age, sex, race, education, and occupation, among others. While many questions designed to measure change in attitudes and behavior are repeated in identical form in each survey, special questionnaire supplements are added to most surveys by outside sponsors on a time share basis. Supplements to the ongoing surveys give sponsors prompt turnaround to survey materials while taking advantage of shared field expenses. When the research task is first undertaken, a maximum amount of time and effort can be spent in developing these survey materials, not in establishing and setting in motion standard sampling and interviewing procedures, questionnaire and code development for standard demographic items, and so forth.Although each survey task is unique in its time requirements, shared time participation on the ongoing Surveys of Consumer Attitudes is an effective and flexible approach for meeting many research needs. Current procedures include production of a fully documented computer data file available for analytic use within 48 hours of the close of interviewing. Within one week of the close of the survey, a report containing tabulations and charts of questions asked is sent to the sponsors.