One of the primary ways researchers have characterized engagement during information search is by increases in search behaviors, such as queries and clicks. However, studies have shown that frustration is also characterized by increases in these same behaviors. This research examines the differences in the search behaviors and physiologies of people who are engaged or frustrated during search. A 2x2 within-subject laboratory experiment was conducted with 40 participants. Engagement was induced by manipulating task interest and frustration was induced by manipulating the quality of the search results. Participants' interactions and physiological responses were recorded, and after they searched, they evaluated their levels of engagement, frustration and stress. Participants reported significantly greater levels of engagement when completing tasks that interested them and significantly less engagement during searches with poor results quality. For all search behaviors measured, only two significant differences were found according to task interest: participants had more scrolls and longer query intervals when searching for interesting tasks, suggesting greater interaction with content. Significant differences were found for nine behaviors according to results quality, including queries issued, number of SERPs displayed and number of SERP clicks, suggesting these are potentially better indicators of frustration rather than engagement. When presented with poor quality results, participants had significantly higher heart rates than when presented with normal quality results. Finally, participants had lower heart rates and greater skin conductance responses when conducting interesting tasks than when conducting uninteresting tasks. This research provides insight into the differences in search behaviors and physiologies of participants when they are engaged versus frustrated and presents techniques that can be used by those wishing to induce engagement and frustration during laboratory IIR studies.