The makeup and relationships within the design supply chain are changing rapidly. One-stop shopping, whereby a system house procures most of its design and fabrication services from a single source, is now being supplanted by a host of outsourcing suppliers. These players are developing online integration platforms for outsourced design engineering, business transactions, and data management. This evolution is being felt by the entire design automation industry, whether it be focused on the electronic design of chips, boards, or systems, or even the mechanical design of their packaging and housing. What are the implications of this trend on cost, demand for services, and time to market? How can all parties ride this wave of the future to achieve the best outcome in terms of collaborative design capabilities and quality of results? The CAD industry is at a turning point. Vendors that focused on core modeling capabilities over the years now emphasize capabilities for collaboration and the coordination of product lifceycle support. CAD's expanding role involves increasing the bandwidth of communication through greater deployment of the Internet for online interaction, product information sharing, and knowledge re-use. The capabilities to access, manipulate, and share a greater range of product-centric information and knowledge will continue to improve. While the $6.5 billion plus marketplace for design and engineering software will grow at a rate of approximately 10% annually over the next 5 years, this smaller $1 billion marketplace for collaborative software will expand at the annualized rate of more than 25% over the next five years. Until now, the marketplace for such collaborative software has been driven by expectations of competitive advantage. Moving forward, this marketplace will expand out of a necessity to globally access the technical talent needed to deliver competitive products to market. Current engineering capacity in North America and Western Europe satisfies only 75% of industry needs. By 2005, domestic availability will satisfy only 60% of the need. Consequently, Western manufacturers must increase the productivity of their current engineering staff and outsource engineering both domestically and abroad to increase capacity. While outsourcing potentially fulfills the resource requirements, it exacerbates the communication challenges. Collaborative Product Commerce (CPC) functionality offers the best solution yet to address this communication bandwidth challenge. However, since CPC is still a formative concept, few companies have experience with implementation. The collaborative nature of CPC challenges companies to reconsider their priorities and how they measure their performance, yielding cultural …