PWA is an extended relational algebra that provides functionality to fetch and query information directly from intranet/internet data sources. In PWA, information extraction is combined with an extended relational algebra to deal with imprecise queries over semistructured information sources. Our system is based on a probabilistic relational algebra [3], [4] extended with web capabilities equivalent to those described in [I] and incorporating an information extraction capability based on InfoExtractor [2]. The architecture of PWA is shown in Figure 1. Declarative requests are passed via a GUI or JDBC interface to the PWA interpreter, which decomposes them into query fragments addressed to the relevant data sources and passes the parameters for these fragments to the source communications modules. The results returned by the query fragments are processed by the InfoExtractor module to extract, and optionally transform , the data into a uniform representation and conceptual framework. The information extraction process is probabilistic and results in a set of values with associated probability measures. These values are returned to the PWA interpreter, which performs the required probabilistic relational operations and passes the final result back to the GUI or JDBC API. The information we access is either not organised as structured records, or is likely to be structured in an inconvenient or unhelpful form. Our information extraction approach is based on a document abstract model in which the document is hierarchically partitioned into regions that contain concepts of interest. Each region corresponds to a limited structural and semantic domain that allows us to simplify the concept identification process. This process is guided by concept definition frames that contain the information needed to find an instance of a given concept within a region, where only certain concepts can be identified. This allows us to adopt an effective structured approach and to avoid the use of complex natural language understanding techniques during the concept recognition process. Within a region text or other multimedia content describes a number of concepts of interest, as well as irrelevant material that must be ignored. For each candidate concept a total matching weight is calculated and expressed as a percentage of the maximum possible weight. The best matching candidate is selected if its matching percentage is above the threshold specified in the enclosing region definition. If there is no concept that matches sufficiently