up any modern operating systems textbook, and you will find sections on distributed processing-the sharing of computation among multiple physical processors. Familiarity with this literature brings the reader into contact with a jargon filled with the sorts of terms that computer science thrives on: load balancing, network topology, routing strategics, circuit switching, collision detection, job migration, and the like. The discussion centers on how the bits of data that make up a computation can be physically moved among machines. If however, one picks up a book on distributed AI processing 1 , the papers are very different. Instead of solely seeing the technical jargon of computer science, the pages are full of terms borrowed from sociology: negotiation, interaction, contracts, agreement, organization , cohesion, social order, and collaboration, to name but a few. This is not to say that serious AI scientists aren't concerned with the issues in the underlying computation , but rather that concentrating on the issues involved in determining how a set of separate agents can give rise to global "intelligent" behavior forces the researcher to go beyond consideration of the computation itself. It is clear that an understanding of how multiple agents can jointly achieve the solution of complex problems demands insights into the bases of communication and social organization. For example, consider a group of humans working together to build a house. Such an endeavour requires a number of instances of cooperation and organization, in particular, the communication of information between participants and the organization of the activity so that specialists in one area (electricians, carpenters, architects) can cooperate with those working in another, all organized so as to achieve a shared goal. These same features emerge, however, as a swarm of bees work together to establish a hive. The similar-for example, Readings in Distributed Artificial Intelligence , A. Bond and L. Gasser (eds.), Morgan-Kaufman, 1988. ities and differences between these situations brings us to the topic of this panel: what .are some of the differences in perspective arising from differing views of multiple agent problem solving? The goal of this panel is to bring together researchers attacking multiagency in different ways and to explore the similarities and differences between their approaches. The panelists represent a set of very different, approaches to understanding multiagent problem solving. These include: • Collaborative. Work: Danny Bobrow has been studying issues involved in enabling a set of humans to work …