Genomic databases assist molecular biologists in understanding the biochemical function, chemical structure, and evolutionary history of organisms. Popular systems for searching genomic databases match queries to answers by comparing a query to each of the sequences in the database. Efficiency in such exhaustive systems is crucial, since some servers process over 40,000 queries per day, and resolution of each query can require comparison to over one gigabyte of genomic sequence data. While exhaustive systems are practical at present, they may become prohibitively expensive a5 genomic databases continue to double in size yearly, and as user numbers and query rates grow. Our successful, novel indexing and retrieval techniques for querying genomic databases are embodied in a full-scale prototype retrieval system, Cafe [l, 2, 31. The disadvantages of indexing genomic databases are the requirement of time to build an index and of space to store the index on disk. The advantage of indexing is that searching is more scalable and much faster than exhaustive approaches. Cafe is based on techniques used in text retrieval and approximate string matching for databases of names. The principal features of Cafe are the incorporation of novel and efficient data structures for query resolution and the demonstration that, despite earlier negative results, indexing can be successfully applied to genomic databases. We demonstrate the Cafe search capabilities and show that it has the requisite properties of efficiency and accuracy. For example, Cafe is over fifty times faster than the popular and accurate FastA in searching the GenBank database and almost as effective in finding answers. Cafe is also practical on general-purpose hardware and requires an index two to three times larger than the sequence data, while other approaches such as FLASH require search structures over one hundred times larger. In addition, we have found that, surprisingly, FastA search times increase by more than a factor of two with a doubling of database size. In contrast, Cafe search times increase by a factor of around 1.1.