Welcome to this second edition of the ICN workshop at ACM SIGCOMM. The first edition of the workshop in 2011 was a really rewarding event and a great success in fulfilling its main objective of bringing researchers from different projects and initiatives together. 
 
ICN research has progressed fast since last year's workshop. There is a growing number of projects and researchers devoted to this topics, and there are several open source implementations available that enable experiments with new ideas as well as ICN applications. Moreover ICN concepts such as accessing named data objects get adopted by more evolutionary work, too. With these developments in mind, we have initiated this second edition of the workshop to give researchers an opportunity to present their results on ICN architecture design, specific algorithms and protocols, as well as on results from implementations and experimentation. 
 
For this year happy, we are happy to report that we saw an increase in both the number of submissions as well as the geographic diversity of authors: the call for papers attracted more than 60 submissions from Australia, Asia, Europe and the United States, covering different topics from ICN architectures to specific topics such as naming, security, transport protocols and feasibility studies. The number and the general quality of the received submissions are a promising indication for the commitment and the level of activity that the networking research community is currently investing into ICN. 
 
With the help of an excellent technical program committee of more than 30 international researchers, we were able to select 16 high-quality papers for the final workshop program that, as we believe, address important current research topics in the fields and are suitable to create interesting and fruitful discussions. We hope that the workshop proceedings will serve as a valuable reference for researchers and developers in the field and that the discussions at the workshop will be fruitful for establishing ICN as a major networking research topic. 
 
ICN as a research topic is now at a stage where the fundamental concepts and mechanisms have been developed and where qualitative and quantitative analysis can be performed - requiring testbeds, analytical methodology as well as more running code and deployments. We hope that his workshop can also serve as platform for discussing these topics, too.