On behalf of the organizing committee, it is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 22nd ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM 2013) in San Francisco! 
 
CIKM is a premier ACM conference in the areas of information retrieval, knowledge management and databases. Since 1992, it has successfully brought together leading researchers and developers from the three communities. The purpose of the conference is to identify challenging problems facing the development of future knowledge and information systems, and to shape future research directions through the publication of high quality applied and theoretical research findings. In CIKM 2013, we continue the tradition of promoting collaboration among multiple areas and providing a leading forum in which experts from academia, industry, and government gather to exchange ideas, research results, and technical developments in multidisciplinary research areas. 
 
As one of the world's most recognized conferences in the field, this year CIKM received 848 valid full paper submissions, 233 poster submissions, and 57 demonstration submissions. Among them, we accepted 143 full papers (16.86% acceptance rate), 107 short papers, 81 posters and 21 demos. In addition to regular research tracks, CIKM 2013 features 4 keynote speakers, a panel on Big Data, dedicated Industry events featuring 10 leading industrial practitioners, 10 tutorials from nprestigious researchers and 14 workshops on cutting-edge areas of research. This is a great demonstration of the lively research areas that contribute to the CIKM area. We are proud of our final program and gratefully thank all authors, invited speakers and organizers who chose to contribute their time and research to CIKM 2013. 
 
We are honored to present four distinguished keynote speakers to attendees: Ronald Fagin, Lee Giles, Carlos Guestrin, and Alon Halevy. Their valuable, insightful and interdisciplinary talks will guide us to a better understanding of the field.