Welcome to the 2007 International Conference on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD), the world's premier conference in electronic design technology! This 25th anniversary edition combines an exciting technical program in a new schedule format with an excellent tutorial program. There are also many side meetings and social events with plenty of opportunities for networking and meeting colleagues and friends. We invite you to find all details on our renewed website www.iccad.com. 
 
This year's updated schedule starts on Monday, November 5, with a full tutorial program, consisting of 4 half-day tutorials and 1 full-day tutorial which you can mix and match as you please. These tutorials, given by world experts, are an excellent opportunity for updating your knowledge in state-of-the-art and emerging areas. 
 
The regular technical sessions run from Tuesday, November 6, through Thursday, November 8, and continue to bring you the best technical papers. This year ICCAD received 510 worldwide submissions, and after thorough reviews and a full-day program committee meeting, 139 papers were selected to be included in our program, grouped in 36 sessions in 4 parallel tracks. They bring you the best technical advancements and innovations in electronic design technology. We also continue the very successful tracks on nanotechnology and designer perspectives, which were extremely well attended last year, especially the sessions where designers talk about their problems and solutions in real-world designs. 
 
This program is complemented with 2 top-notch plenary keynote speakers: Jeff Welser, Director of the SRC National Nanoelectronics Research Initiative, and John Kibarian, CEO of PDF Solutions. The 2007 Annual SIGDA Dinner at ICCAD features a talk by Gene Amdahl on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of Amdahl's law. In addition, there are 4 embedded tutorials ranging from nano-photonic circuits over physical synthesis and formal verification to device modeling for 45 nm and below. An evening panel on exploring the next big thing in EDA, the Technology Fair, and a 25th anniversary banquet with surprise entertainment complete the program. 
 
In conclusion, ICCAD 2007 offers an outstanding technical program and an ideal place for all to meet, to learn and discover the latest and greatest new research developments in electronic design technology and to exchange ideas about the challenges and solutions in the era of nanoscale integrated circuits. Join us and enjoy the conference!