It is our pleasure to welcome you to the 9th International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Service, or more simply MobiSys 2011. This year's conference continues the tradition of providing a highlyselective forum for cutting-edge research that takes a broad systems perspective of mobile computing. Continuing trends from last year, there is a strong showing for research related to smartphones that reflects their growing momentum as powerful, programmable mobile systems. Research on energy-efficiency in many guises is also very popular. A broad set of other topics is represented in the program, covering aspects of security, sensor networks and wireless protocols, and mobile applications and services. 
 
We received 141 submissions, roughly a 10% increase from the previous year, as MobiSys continues to grow as a venue. The papers were reviewed as in past years, with a two round review process. Each paper received three reviews during the first round. Half of the papers then advanced to the second round, where they received two further reviews. All told, our tireless PC members produced over 560 reviews. To select the program, we discussed 55 papers at an all-day face-to-face PC meeting directly following the HotMobile workshop in Phoenix, AZ. The resulting program that you see before you features 25 highly-competitive papers. All of these papers were further shepherded by a PC member to improve their presentation. 
 
As well as papers, we are very fortunate to have an excellent line-up of speakers who capitalize on our "Washington, DC" location: Dr. Edward Felten will speak in his new role as Chief Technologist for the FTC, and Dr. Douglas Sicker will speak in his role as the Chief Technologist for the FCC. And as is a tradition for MobiSys, the recipient of the SIGMOBILE Outstanding Contributor Award will deliver a keynote; this year we keenly look forward to hearing from Prof. Mahadev "Satya" Satyanarayanan. The technical program also includes an eagerly anticipated event, the poster and demonstration session. This year we have 23 demonstrations and 11 posters that highlight new research! We especially want to thank Moustafa Youssef from EJUST, Egypt for putting together this session as the Posters/Demos Chair.