On2broker provides brokering services to improve access to heterogeneous, distributed and semistructured information sources as they are presented in the World Wide Web. It relies on the use of ontologies to make explicit the semantics of web pages, to formulate queries and to derive answers for them. In the poster we will sketch its main purpose and the general architecture of On2broker. In the area of knowledge-based systems ontologies have been developed for structuring and reusing large bodies of knowledge (cf. CYC (Lenat, 1995), KIF/Ontolingua (KIF), (KA) 2 (Benjamins et al., 1998)). Ontologies are consensual and formal specification of a vocabulary used to describe a specific domain. On2broker uses such ontologies to improve access to information provided in intranets and in the internet. It uses semantic information for guiding the query answering process. It provides the answers with a well- defined syntax and semantics that can be directly understood and further processed by automatic agents or other software tools. It enables a homogeneous access to information that is physically distributed and heterogeneously represented in the WWW and it provides information that is not directly represented as facts in the WWW but which can be derived from other facts and some background knowledge. This tool service can also be used to create and maintain such semistructured information sources, i.e. it is a tool for web site construction and restruction. Automatic document generation extracts information from weakly structured text sources and creates new textual sources. The gist of this application is that it generates semistructured information presentations from other semistructured ones. Maintenance of weakly structured text sources helps to detect inconsistencies among documents and to detect inconsistencies between documents and external sources, i.e., to detect incorrectness. The overall picture of On2broker is provided in Figure 1 which includes four basic engines representing different aspects. • The info agent is responsible for collecting factual knowledge from the web using various style of meta annotations, direct annotations like XML and in future also text mining techniques.