Welcome to the Second ACM International Workshop on Storage Security and Survivability (StorageSS'06) which was held in Alexandria, Virginia, on October 30, 2006, in conjunction with the Thirteenth ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS 2006).Storage is a complex area of research. In recent years, two major related problems in this field have emerged: security and survivability. The amount of data that is produced and stored digitally is growing at phenomenal rates, but the I/O speeds at which these massive amounts of data can be accessed is not keeping pace with this growth. At the same time, we expect data to be preserved for decades or longer. The first problem, therefore, is how to ensure that data written today remains secure for years to come: for example, preventing slow attacks on persistent stores which may take years to complete, or ensuring the use of strong yet efficient encryption technology which can last a lifetime. The second problem is survivability: ensuring that the data written today will still be readable years from now. For example, storage systems must deal with major disasters, evolution and obsolescence of data formats, and failure-prone hardware with a limited lifespan. These are challenging problems, especially given the large scale of storage and the need for truly long-term guarantees.Now in its second year, this workshop was created to help tackle these difficult problems by bringing together researchers and practitioners from industry, government, and academia across the world. One of the workshop's goals is to foster discussions that may challenge conventions, suggest forward-looking ideas, and even provoke "wild" ideas that will eventually lead to truly novel, ground-breaking technologies.StorageSS'06 attracted sixteen high-quality submissions, each of which received between three and five reviews, with at least three reviews from program committee (PC) members. The PC met for several hours to discuss the papers and, after a lively meeting, eleven papers were accepted. We are very happy with the final workshop program, which contains an excellent mix of thought-provoking papers providing good coverage of both security and survivability. We are particularly proud that many papers came from well-established researchers and practitioners in the field; this is quite an achievement for only a two-year old workshop.