With the emerging technology breakthrough in computing, the fundamental definition of computer systems is under revision. This revolutionary change is occurring in many ways including the blending of mobile and fixed computing platforms, the use of software systems as virtual network connected "devices," and the emergence of analytics as tools for building scalable systems. 
 
This year, BigSystems takes continues its theme of "Software Defined Systems" with interesting presentations covering new operating systems research, multi-data center data management, networking, and flexible "Platform as a Service" architectures. The keynote presentation by Brent Gorda, head of Intel's High Performance Data Division, highlights the technological advances that underpin the development of ever more performant software defined systems. Finally, a panel of distinguished researchers and industry professionals debates and discusses the technology ramifications of software defined system architectures and design approaches. 
 
It is the time to rethink system design and management without boundaries towards software-defined ecosystems, the Big System. The basic principles of software-defined mechanisms and policies have witnessed great success in clouds and networks. We are expecting broader, deeper, and greater evolution and confluence towards holistic software-defined ecosystems. BigSystems 2015, in its second year, continues to provide the venue for early and important innovations in this emerging discipline. We offer a rich program from keynote on feeding data into big systems, paper presentation sessions on software-defined platforms, software-defined systems (OS and data centers), to the panel on building flexibly changeable systems at scale. 
 
The First International Workshop on Software-Defined Ecosystems (BigSystem 2014) provides an open forum for researchers, practitioners, and system builders to exchange ideas, discuss, and shape roadmaps towards such big systems in the era of big data.