It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 1st International Workshop on Search and Mining Entity-Relationship Data -- SMER 2011, held at CIKM 2011 in Glasgow on October 28, 2011. 
 
Data complexity and its diversity have been rapidly expanding over the last years. Numerous applications in various domains such as social-media, healthcare, e-commerce, and business intelligence require new methods and tools for collecting and extracting entities and their relationships from unstructured data sources to be transformed into useful knowledge. Even though lots of useful facts are being added on a daily basis on multitude web and enterprise data sources, they are still hidden behind barriers of language constraints, data heterogeneity and ambiguity, and the lack of proper query interfaces. In addition, novel search and data mining methods are required to provide expressive and powerful discovery capabilities, yet intuitive enough, for exploring the large amounts of entity-relationship data. 
 
The workshop picks up these problems in two main themes. The first is search and discovery over rich entity-relationship data and includes among others topics such as ER data collection, indexing, query languages and optimization, ranking methods, similarity and exploratory search, privacy, etc. The second theme is entity-relationship data mining methods and includes among others topics such ER data extraction, resolution, representation, fusion, ER graph mining, etc. The workshop main objective is to serve as an open forum for discussing the new research challenges in search and mining of large scale ER data extracted from multitude of unstructured and semi-structured data sources, driven by recent industry trends and requirements in various domains and increasing academic interest. The workshop will bring together researchers from different communities working on similar problems in the context of ER and other semantic data, allowing for cross-fertilization between areas. During the workshop, we will identify common problems and their various solution approaches in DB, KM, and IR. 
 
The workshop will consist of three parts: 
Keynote talks by Michael Witbrock (Cycorp), Krisztian Balog (Norwegian University of Science and Technology), and David Carmel (IBM Research) with valuable insights from both research and industry, 
three research talks and three posters, selected by the program committee from a total of 10 papers, with topics spanning from entity extraction methods to entity search and privacy, and 
an open panel for discussing open issues and advances in ER search and data mining, serving as an open stage for interdisciplinary collaboration for facing the emerging research challenges.