The papers in this volume were presented at the Forty-Seventh Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC 2015), held as part of the Federated Computing Research Conference in Portland, Oregon, June 15-June 17, 2015. The Symposium was sponsored by the ACM Special Interest Group on Algorithms and Computation Theory (SIGACT). On June 14, the day before STOC, there was a program of workshops and tutorials organized by Chandra Chekuri and Sanjeev Khanna. The workshop was on "Algorithmic Frontiers of Modern Massively Parallel Computation"; the tutorials were on "Hardness and Equivalences for Problems in P" and "Sampling and Volume Computation in High Dimension". 
 
In response to a Call for Papers, 347 submissions were received by the submission deadline of November 4, 2014, 3:59PM EST. The Program Committee began its deliberations electronically on December 22, 2014 and continued in that medium until its meeting at MIT in Cambridge, MA on January 30 - February 1, 2015, where final decisions were made. All 26 Program Committee members attended the Program Committee meeting. 
 
The Program Committee selected 93 papers for presentation. The submissions were not refereed, and many of these papers represent reports of continuing research. It is expected that most of them will appear in a more polished and complete form in scientific journals. The Program Committee would like to thank all authors who submitted papers for consideration. 
 
From among many excellent candidates, the papers "Exponential Separation of Information and Communication for Boolean Function", by Anat Ganor, Gillat Kol and Ran Raz, "2-Server PIR with sub-polynomial communication" by Zeev Dvir and Sivakanth Gopi, and "Lower bounds on the size of semidefinite programming relaxations" by James Lee, Prasad Raghavendra and David Steurer, were selected for the STOC Best Paper Award. The paper "Inapproximability of Nash Equilibrium", by Aviad Rubinstein, was selected for the Danny Lewin Best Student Paper Award.