Welcome to the 2008 International Conference on Computer-Aided Design. ICCAD continues to be the premiere and most selective technical conference devoted to technical innovations in the design automation of devices, circuits, and systems. This exciting program of technical papers, tutorials, keynotes and panels will highlight the most important current and future research challenges. The new addition of colocated workshops on hot topics promises non-stop technical excitement. As always, a large number of side meetings and social events provide plenty of opportunities for networking and meeting colleagues and friends. 
 
We invite you to find all the up to date details on the conference website www.iccad.com. To accommodate the new colocated workshops, which will be on Sunday, November 9 and Thursday November 13, this year's schedule starts on Monday, November 10 and integrates the four excellent tutorials into the traditional ICCAD technical program by adding a fifth track. These tutorials, given by world experts, are an excellent opportunity for updating your knowledge in state-of-the-art and emerging areas. Further recognizing this educational value, and new for 2008, the conference is opening these tutorials to all student attendees at no charge. 
 
This year we received 458 worldwide submissions and the technical program committee, after careful deliberation, selected 122 excellent papers for presentation. These papers are split into 40 sessions over the three days of the technical program. In addition, the ICCAD program this year includes three embedded tutorials, as well as two designer sessions, all focused on providing additional broad perspectives for our CAD audience. 
 
For 2008 we are excited to have two excellent plenary keynote speakers. The first is from Mary Lou Jepsen, chief hardware architect of the famous "One Laptop per Child" project. She will talk about that project and about future challenges in CAD for displays, an area of immense potential as new display technologies are deployed. Our second keynote is by Dmitri "Mitya" Chklovskii, world renowned for his research on the human brain and how it relates to traditional computers. In addition, CAD veteran Giovanni De Micheli, well known by the ICCAD community for his distinguished contributions over decades, will be giving a Tuesday lunch talk about exciting new frontiers in biology and environmental engineering. 
 
ICCAD 2008 is the place to be this November! Hot on the heels of the US presidential election, the conference promises a level of technical excitement that is sure to satisfy. See you in San Jose!