INTRODUCTION High-speed rail (HSR) systems are actively changing the way people commute for medium-to-long distance travel. However, they also pose unprecedented challenges in providing seamless Internet service to on-board passengers, primarily because of the unreliable link quality caused by low SNR (due to the in-carriage electromagnetic shielding) and frequent handover (failure). A mobile relay/gateway appears to be a widely adopted solution [1] – it improves the SNR by mounting the antenna on roof, but still fails to address the handover-induced TCP disruptions and meet application’s requirements when it is used in a straightforward manner, i.e., based on today’s single path TCP atop single access/carrier default setting. We propose M3, a Multipath transport Multihoming Mobile relay architecture, which is designed for HSR or high mobility data networking in general.M3 features a user space multipath transport framework. By elevating the multipath scheduler from kernel space to user space, M3 can easily incorporate various application-level contextual information. Specifically,M3 augments MPTCP with the following features: 1 QoE-aware.M3 can (dynamically) choose the paths/links with demanding characteristics to meet application’s bandwidth and latency requirement. 2 Predictive link-aware. In such scenarios, location and corresponding link information (e.g., signal strength, bandwidth and RTT) is often predictable. Thanks to the carrier-coverage diversity, one can perform location-aware packet-level path scheduling based on the “best” cellular link(s) to effectively improve the networking performance during the periods of handover and coverage hole for any single cellular link. 3 Aggregate throughput optimization. As mobile relay is often shared by a number of passengers, by establishing a multipath tunnel between the mobile relay and a near-server proxy, one can achieve MPTCP transparency to both clients and servers, eliminate the problem of slow start (especially for short flows under MPTCP), and perform global optimization such as priority-based session/connection-level scheduling and popular content caching/prefetching for all the onboard passengers. A simplified workflow of howM3 components interact when client requests an object is shown in Fig. 1: