On behalf of the organizing committee, we wholeheartedly welcome you to the ACM Eighteenth International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM 2009). We hope this conference proves to be interesting and beneficial. 
 
CIKM 2009 was originally planned to be held in Beijing, China. However, due to unforeseen reasons, CIKM 2009 had to be moved to Hong Kong in early December 2009, and the organizing committee was re-invited. This late re-organization of the conference caused many troubles and much burden in terms of preparation and financial costs. Despite the shortened time period and financial problems, David Cheung, the newly invited General co-Chair, and his local team worked very diligently to carefully prepare an outstanding program for everyone. 
 
Since its inception, the CIKM conference has provided a unique international forum for the presentation, discussion, and dissemination of research findings in data management, information retrieval, and knowledge management. The conference has been a leading forum in which experts from academia, industry, and the government gather to exchange ideas, research achievements, and technical developments in multidisciplinary research areas. 
 
CIKM has rapidly grown to become one of the world's most recognized conferences in the field. CIKM 2009 has received a record high number of submissions in the history of CIKM, as can be seen from the following statistics: - 1153 abstracts submitted - 847 full papers submitted - 123 papers accepted for presentation as full papers (14.5% acceptance rate) and an additional 171 were accepted for poster presentation. 
 
In addition to regular research tracks, CIKM 2009 features 3 keynote speakers, 4 pre-conference tutorials, 11 workshops, 18 industrial papers, 24 demo papers, and 1 panel. We are proud of our program and acknowledge the tireless efforts of people who materialized this program. 
 
First of all, we are honored to have 3 distinguished keynote speakers: Kyu-Young Whang, Edward Chang, and Clement Yu. We deeply appreciate their time and commitment to attend our conference and share their cutting-edge research experiences and insightful comments in their research topics.