Minimally invasive surgical techniques, commonly referred to as keyhole techniques, bellybutton surgery, or laparoscopy, were aggressively developed in the 1990s. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) also called Laparoscopic surgery, bandied surgery, keyhole surgery, or pinhole surgery. It is a modern surgical technique in which operations in the abdomen are performed through small incisions (usually 0.5-1.5 cm). (Figure 1). Callaghan et al.1 used direct measurement of contact forces between a surgical instrument tips for scissor blades and the tissue. Tavakoli et al.2 designed a robotic master slave system for use in minimally invasive surgery. The system was capable of providing haptic feedback to the surgeon in all available degrees of freedom, providing a sense of touch to the user. Sokhanvar3 proposed a sensor and modeled both analytically and numerically and a series of simulations performed in order to estimate the characteristics of the sensor in measuring the magnitude and position of a point load, distributed load, and the softness of the contact object. Shikida et al.4 presented an active tactile sensor with ability to detect both contact force and hardness of an object. Their system consisted of a diaphragm with a mesa (a flat-topped projection) at the center, a piezoresistance displacement sensor at the periphery, and a chamber for pneumatic actuation. Dargahi5 proposed a prototype tactile sensing system with only three sensing elements. The magnitude and position of the applied force were obtained by utilizing triangulation approach combined with membrane stress. Narayanan et al.6 presented the design, analysis, and fabrication of a micro machined piezoelectric endoscopic tactile sensor to determine the properties of tissues in minimally invasive surgery. Rosen et al.7 developed a computerized force feedback endoscopic surgical grasper (FREG) with computer control and a haptic user interface in order to regain the tactile and kinesthetic information that is lost. The system used standard unmodified grasper shafts and tips. The first steps in realizing soft tissue models through the development of an automated laparoscopic grasper and tissue cutting equipment to characterize grasping and cutting tasks in minimally invasive surgery (MIS) were taken by Tholey et al.8 Sjoerdsma et al.9 measured the force transmission of laparoscopic grasping forceps and bowel clamps and showed that the mechanical efficiency is lower than 50%. Okamura et al.10 developed an algorithm to simultaneously display translational and cutting forces for a realistic cutting simulation. They considered two cutting models: real tissue data, and analytical model. Callaghan et al.11 presented the design and development of a force measurement test apparatus, which would serve as a sensor characterization and evaluation platform. Although, in the past decade many distinguished works have been presented in force sensing, however, still many problem remain unexplored which need to be investigated before the idea of smart grasper can find its place in minimally invasive surgery. The works on giving sense of force to the surgeon are very scars and limited for remote tele-operation and robotic surgery. According to the best knowledge of the authors, sensing force for common grasper has not been well studied.