This volume contains the proceedings of the Third Workshop on Principles of Engineering Service-Oriented Systems (PESOS 2011), held in Hawaii, USA on May 23rd and 24th 2011, co-located with ICSE 2011. PESOS is one of the satellite workshops of ICSE that provides a lively and exciting environment for discussion of trends in all aspects of computing that are related to Software Engineering. 
 
PESOS 2011 follows the steps of its two predecessors, held in Vancouver (2009) and Cape Town (2010), and aims at exploring the engineering aspects of service-oriented systems. These systems represent a class of software systems in which software is viewed and used as external, loosely-coupled services rather than being physically integrated and owned permanently. Service-oriented systems provide a flexible approach to software development, provisioning, and maintenance because services offer reusable functionality that can be combined to support business processes (or similar) that are dynamic in nature. This enables systems to adapt to changes in their environment as well as to the continuously evolving requirements that are commonplace today. However, service orientation poses challenges to more traditional approaches to software development, stemming from the lack of homogeneity of its basic components and from the requirement to accommodate changes and evolution right from the beginning. The goal of this workshop is to find possibilities of synergy between Software Engineering and Service-Oriented Computing that are beneficial to both fields. In organizing this workshop, we sought to bring together practitioners from both communities for a fruitful exchange of opinions, expertise and experiences. 
 
PESOS 2011 was fortunate to have invited talks from experts in the field and a panel on the future of research in service-oriented systems engineering. In addition, nine out of nineteen submitted papers were selected for presentation in four technical sessions. We want to thank the program committee and the additional reviewers for their dedication and the excellent work performed, without which the workshop would not have been possible. We also want to extend our gratitude to the organizers of ICSE 2011 for the facilities they gave us regarding the logistics of the workshop and the publication of the proceedings.