An Extended Pattern Search (EPS) method is developed to optimize the layout and turbine geometry for offshore floating wind power systems. The EPS combines a deterministic pattern search with stochastic extensions. Three advanced models are incorporated: (1) a cost model considering investment and lifetime costs of a floating offshore wind farm comprised of WindFloat platforms; (2) a wake propagation and interaction model able to determine the reduced wind speeds downstream of rotating blades; and (3) a power model to determine power produced at each rotor, and includes a semi-continuous, discrete turbine geometry selection to optimize the rotor radius and hub height of individual turbines. The objective function maximizes profit by minimizing cost, minimizing wake interactions, and maximizing power production. A multidirectional, multiple wind speed case is modeled which is representative of real wind site conditions. Layouts are optimized within a square solution space for optimal positioning and turbine geometry for farms containing a varying number of turbines. Resulting layouts are presented; optimized layouts are biased towards dominant wind directions. Preliminary results will inform developers of best practices to include in the design and installation of offshore floating wind farms, and of the resulting cost and power production of wind farms that are computationally optimized for realistic wind conditions. INTRODUCTION The large wind resource off the United States West Coast has the potential to generate wind power for millions of homes, yet the high cost of energy for offshore wind power (compared to traditional sources) has slowed the development of offshore wind farms in the US. By 2030, it is predicted that 54 MW of offshore wind energy will be installed in the US, yet the majority of the proposed projects are for developments off the US East Coast, where the bathymetry is shallow [1]. While the US West Coast has a predicted wind resource totaling over 900 GW, the steep bathymetry and deep waters make it economically infeasible to install embedded, bottom-fixed wind farms [2,3]. Farther off the coast in deep waters, wind speeds are higher and more predictable, and the total resource area is larger [4]. Since bottom-fixed wind installations are not possible, floating wind power installations must be considered. Floating platforms to support large wind turbines in deep ocean waters are modeled after floating oil and gas rigs [5]. While many types of floating platforms have been proposed, the three main designs are spar-buoy, tension legplatform (TLP), and semi-submersible. A semi-submersible platform called WindFloat, designed by Principle Power, has been installed off the coast of Portugal, and supports a 2 MW wind turbine [5]. Another project using the WindFloat design, called WindFloat Pacific, is in development off the US West Coast, where a 30 MW array will be installed off the coast of Coos Bay, Oregon [6,7]. However, floating offshore wind installations have high investment and operations and maintenance (O&M) costs that can be prohibitive. Therefore, reducing the cost of floating offshore wind developments is crucial to advancing the floating offshore wind power industry in the United States. While decreasing the initial investment is difficult due to the inherent costs that come with a new floating offshore wind project, it is possible to maximize the profit of a wind farm through means of turbine layout and geometry optimization. This work simultaneously optimizes the turbine layout and geometry of offshore floating wind farms, comprised of WindFloat platforms, using a profit objective. Proceedings of the ASME 2016 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers and Information in Engineering Conference IDETC/CIE 2016 August 21-24, 2016, Charlotte, North Carolina