Enabling of human activities in regions with extreme weather is closely connected to the use of electricity, so the assurance of a reliable service is a main goal to be fulfilled. Extreme conditions represent constant hazard for the desired functioning condition, mainly due to the presence of icing on external structures. The major effects of ice accretion on external structures such as power lines towers, the power lines and ceramics insulators are the mechanical and thermal stresses imposed by the amount of ice formed on the structure and its distribution, along with the presence of the induced corona effect. Both effects constitute a potential hazard for the good development of human activities. Amount and distribution on ice on the external structure are influenced by atmospheric conditions such as wind speed and direction, temperature and humidity and the geometrical characteristics of the structure. Actions orientated to provide a good electricity distribution system in remote locations required realistic information that is not always possible to obtain directly from the actual system. This situation highlights the fact that cold climate simulators are a key aspect in testing the performance of new technologies for application in cold climate conditions to ensure they fulfill specific functionalities under extreme icing conditions. Simulations can be performed by numerical or experimental means. New technology developments includes methods, procedures and new inventions that are closely related to the monitoring of the problem and the management of the information about the behavior of the system to enable appropriate actions in managing the system. To guarantee continuous development in this key area specialized education must be made available to support the sector. In this sense initiatives such as the Study on Atmospheric Icing on Structures in the High North, a project supported by SIU, becomes key to the globalization of new alternatives and new approaches that will lead to improved solutions, including the gathering of the information required for the development and operation of automated or robotic solutions.