The automobile industry is a capital-intensive and knowledgeintensive industry, plays an important role in the country’s socio-economic development. Currently, the industry is booming, involving an increasing number of countries in the production of cars, while the alignment of forces in the automotive market is constantly changing. The role of the automobile industry in the development of the modern economy and the prospects for its development is determined by the place of motor transport in the infrastructure of the national economy. The article talks about the historical development of the automobile industry in developed countries, analyzes the current situation, makes forecasts and highlights the main trends in their automotive industry. Currently, the development of the country’s economy is difficult to imagine without the development of the automobile industry. According to the world association of car manufacturers “OICA” in 2017, 73.4 million cars and 23.84 million trucks were produced in the world.1 According to international estimates, the average annual turnover of the world automobile industry is more than 2.75 trillion. Euro,2 which corresponds to 3.65% of world GDP. In the automotive industry over the last ten years (2007-2017) there was a 25% increase in production. Cars are one of the world’s largest export products, surpassing oil revenues, for example, world car exports by country3 in 2016 estimated at 698.2 billion dollars. USA. The industry is also a major innovator, investing more than 84 billion euros in research, development and production. So among the 2500 leading companies in the investment in R&D, three major sectors dominate: pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, production of process equipment, and the automotive industry. For example, only the volume of investment in R&D corporation VW AG4 in 2014 has become about 13 billion euros, and two years later in 2016 about 13.2 billion US dollars. It is worth noting that tax revenue from car manufacturers in 26 industrialized countries is more than 430 billion euros per year.