Debugging software failures is still a painful, time consuming, and expensive process. For instance, recent studies showed that debugging activities often account for about 50% of the overall development cost of software products [3]. There are many factors contributing to the cost of debugging, but the most impacting one is the extensive manual effort that is still required to identify and remove faults. So far, the automation of debugging activities essentially resulted in the development of techniques that provide useful insights about the possible locations of faults, the inputs and states of the application responsible for the failures, as well as the anomalous operations executed during failures. However, developers must still put a relevant effort on the analysis of the failed executions to exactly identify the faults that must be fixed. In addition, these techniques do not help the developers with the synthesis of an appropriate fix. Recently, researchers focused on a new class of approaches, namely program repair techniques [1, 4], whose key idea is to try to automatically repair software systems by producing an actual fix that can be validated by the testers before it is finally accepted, or that can be adapted to properly fit the system. The benefit of using these techniques is that the fix both explains the reason of the failure and provides a possible solution to the problem, thus alleviating the effort necessary to identify and correct faults. Since program repair techniques have the potential to dramatically reduce the debugging effort, they attracted the interest of many researchers who produced several approaches for repairing different classes of faults under different conditions and hypotheses. The proposed algorithms, techniques, and heuristics have been integrated, experimented, and studied, producing a heterogeneous and articulated research framework where automatic repair techniques are proliferating. Important results have been already achieved, but at the same time these results revealed the existence of relevant challenges that should be faced.