Welcome to the 3rd Educational Knowledge Management (EKM) workshop, which takes place at the WWW18 conference, in Lyon, France. The first edition was in 2014 in conjunction with the International Conference on Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management (EKAW), which was held in Linköping, Sweden, and the second one with EKAW 2016, in Bologna, Italy. We received 6 papers from all around the world covering a broad range of topics. Each paper was reviewed by three members of the program committee. After the reviewing process, three papers were accepted for inclusion into the WWW proceedings volume, two of them as full papers and one as a short paper. The EKM2018 workshop will run as a half-day event, including the papers' presentation and two invited speaker sessions. A Best Paper Award will be assigned, and authors will be invited to submit an extended version of their work to a special issue that will be published as part of the "International Journal of Continuing Engineering Education and Lifelong Learning." The first paper Construction and Applications of TeKnowbase A Knowledge Base of Computer Science concepts' by Rajna Upadhyay, Ashutosh Bindal, Manjeet Kumar, and Maya Ramanath describes the development and evaluation of TeKnowbase, and how to use it in a variety of applications for learning a new topic, classification of technical text and querying and ranking computer science articles. The second one untitled "Ontology-based recommender system in higher education" by Charbel Obeid, Inaya Lahoud, Hicham El Khoury, and Pierre-Antoine Champin, is a position paper discussing an ontology-based recommender system to support a student's choice of major and university. The third paper "Automatic Generation of Quizzes from DBpedia According to Educational Standards" by Oscar Rodríguez Rocha and Catherine Faron Zucker focuses on educational quizzes. The authors present an approach to generate quizzes automatically from existing knowledge bases available on the Web of Linked Open Data (LOD), according to the official French educational standards.