The continuous growth of the memory market, whose early beginnings in the 70's and 80's were marked by PC and server DRAMs, has experienced a new boost since the beginning of the 21st century due to the emergence of digital consumer & mobile markets such as cellular phone, DSC, and MP3. The join of the nonvolatile and low-power Flash memory has led to a further explosive growth. Ever increasing density and decreasing costs have evoked a tremendous rise in consumer demand.Innovations in memory technology are reflected in the continuous advance in high density, high speed and low power technologies, in the course of which the design rule has shown a transition from micrometer to nanometer scale. Additionally, the development of new materials has given birth to new high-performance nonvolatile memory types (PRAM, RRAM, MRAM, FRAM, etc.), which open even more opportunities for growth of the semiconductor market.The steep increase in technology of today's memories shows itself in the capacity and speed of storing information of everybody's use: a 1cm2 memory chip can store 10Gbit information now, which corresponds to either 80K pages of newspaper, 20 hours of music or 2.5 movie hours. Today's DRAM shows a random access time of 25-50ns and I/O bandwidth of 3-4GHz. Technical innovations will continue to drive the increase of memory density and speed in the future. Higher storage density is expected to be achieved by breakthroughs such as 3D memory stacking technology (cell/chip/package), the use of 3-dimensional transistors or the shrinkage of memory storage nodes to the atomic scale. Memory system performance will possibly be enhanced by the fusion of conventional commodity memories and new memories: several memories like Flash, SRAM, DRAM, new memories will be merged together with logic and software. Thus we expect that semiconductor products will show a larger variety of high performance systems with much higher robustness and persistence.In the 21st century, which has just begun, memory technology will combine with various other fields (IT, BT, NT) and thus open new markets such as massive data & information processing, bio & health care, and humanoid & aerospace. It will contribute to a world with more comfort and stability, where everywhere and anytime people can exchange and share their thoughts, sensations and emotions.