Remember when computers just processed data and Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) just supported users in their work tasks? Now desktop office machines are outnumbered by broadband servers and mobile devices. With them comes joy, persuasion, outrage, delight,faith, campaigns, satire,fun, learning,identity, communities and passion. Now, increasingly, we interact to be, not just to do.Interaction no longer just changes things, it changes people.CHI 2003 recognizes this sea change in HCI and addresses all forms of interactive digital communication, with a focus on three special areas: mass communication and interaction, e-learning, and emotion. Mass communication is addressed in the opening plenary, the Development Consortium, a special area session on Tuesday afternoon, and in conference presentations on personal media and computer-mediated communication. Wednesday's special area session focuses on e-learning, as do many poster presentations (look out for them in The Commons) and a Special Interest Group.Emotion is the focus of the closing plenary, Thursday's special area session, a Short Talks session, and several poster presentations.CHI 2003 has not abandoned established HCI for New Horizons! Everything you'd expect to find in a CHI conference is still here. There are Design and Usability in Practice sessions for usability and design practitioners, with enough panels, special interest groups, posters, exhibitors, recruiters, workshops, and tutorials to make CHI the venue for professional updating. As the meeting place for an inclusive community, there is something for everyone. Students, researchers and educators are spoilt for choice with paper and short talk sessions, demonstrations and posters.Most of all, the CHI conference is the annual gathering of the world's HCI community. So,take the conference focus on interactive communication to heart. Interact and communicate! Make the most of the Commons and daily social events. Find time for interactive venues such as special interest groups, panels and poster presentations, special area sessions, Design and Usability in Practice and the CHI Fringe. Check out the exhibits, society booths, recruitment boards, message boards, and announcements in the Commons. Most of all, take time to check right through this program. There's a lot happening this week in Fort Lauderdale. Make sure that you don't miss anything important to you.