This vignette is intended to give a brief introduction of the ABSSeq R package by analyzing the simulated data from Soneson et al. [4]. For details about the approach, consult Yang [3]. Currently, ABSSeq integrates two modules: basic model for pairwise comparison and linear model for complex design. RNA-Seq quantifies gene expression with reads count, which usually consists of conditions (or treatments) and several replicates for each condition. The expected expression of each gene is estimated from number of read count, proportional to the expectation value of the true concentration of count. As a result, a normalization method need to be apply on the original counts. The normalized counts usually have enormous variation across genes and compared conditions. The reliable identification of differential expression (DE) genes from such data requires a probabilistic model to account for ambiguity caused by sample size, biological and technical variations, levels of expression and outliers. ABSSeq infers differential expression directly by the counts difference between conditions. It assumes that the sum counts difference between conditions follow a Negative binomial distribution with mean mu (proportional to expression level) and dispersion factor r (size). The mu and r is determined by variation in the experiment, i.e., biological variation, sequencing and mapping biases. Typically, the number of replicates in a study is small and not enough to reveal all variation. To overcome this problem, a common solution is to borrow information across genes. Here, we use local regression to smooth dispersion across genes. The smoothed dispersions are then used to produce pseudocounts in the mu estimation to accounts for dynamic dispersions across expression levels, which in turn moderates the fold-change. ABSSeq tests counts difference directly against a baseline estimated from the data set (mu), and therefore reports p-values related to magnitude of difference (fold-change). In addition, ABSSeq moderates the fold-changes by two steps: the expression level and gene-specific dispersion, that might facilitate the gene ranking by fold-change and visualization (Heatmap). New alternative approach (named aFold) was introduced, which calls DE genes via log fold-change(see second Section for example). aFold uses a polynomial function to model the uncertainty (or variance) of read count, and thus takes into consideration the variance of expression levels across treatments and genes. aFold produces accurate estimation of fold changes. In combination with the linear model from