Neuroscience is most important subject which gives information about world most complex biological intelligence system i.e., brain, how reasoning, knowledge and creativity possible for it, give data and information of brain functioning. When strong and successful results, theories and, practices achieved in it, human race start to think, why not we mimic our brain. And the result of thinking, dreaming and engineering to obtain it, in the result term “Artificial Intelligence”. We much familiar with the term AI, it is science and Engineering to design electronic logic which function like God made brain (natural intelligence) on silicon wafer which is man-made called Artificial Intelligence. Researchers, engineers and practitioners got succeed to design and implement two types of AI i.e., Hardware AI and software AI with two different nature i.e., weak AI and strong AI, and humanoid and Android examples of strong hardware AI and software AI respectively. We are the civilization which living in hi-tech IT world and WWW and due to computing (Specially Advanced Micro/Nano Processors) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) Engineering with modelling, simulation and Advance chip fabrication as sell as programming languages, human race exit from weak AI and jump into strong AI and result of it ASIMO (Advanced Step In Mobility) first its kind of successful Humanoid Robot. Came with various version of it and manufactured by HONDA. ASIMO has ability like speech recognition, image processing, human-like movement processing, voice generation and self-programming algorithm, but researcher, practitioner and engineers still fail to engineer love, emotions, feelings, ability of wise self-decision-making and to distinguish good or bad activities to do and moving for it. But here my objective is different to discuss with the help of this Science Fiction article with term “Ultra Artificial Intelligence (UAI)”. Since Darwin’s years, Human started to use their brains potentially, like logical and arithmetic, reasoning, creativity, gestures, languages and their means encoding and decoding to response each other, but perhaps human being start to brain for knowledge, reasoning, creation and intelligence development. At present unfortunately we using it and how it functioning fail to know; Today’s psychologist, neurologists and practitioners show several research results but still uncertainty maintained from that era to this era, how human brain work; And up to what level we knew it we convert it artificially on silicon chip using ICs fabrication technology like ULSI and Nanotechnology. Today’s researcher even able to design and implement ICs which work similar like human brain with the success to convert biological Neuron mesh and engineering using tools ANN and advanced computer languages and algorithms called “Bioelectronic” in short “Bionic” Brain [1-3]. The term “Bionic Brain” still matter of debate and belong to “Sci-fi”. My traced models would be possibility after the successful design and development of “Bionic Brain”. When this term change to reality, my work will become a serious and interesting matter to start thinking called “UAI” (Figure 1).