Most UAS propulsion systems currently utilize either Internal Combustion Engines (ICE) or Electric Motor 
(EM) prime movers. ICE are favoured for aircraft use due to the superior energy density of fuel compared to 
batteries required for EM, however EM have several significant advantages. A major advantage of EM is that 
they are inherently self starting have predictable response characteristics and well developed electronic control 
systems. EMs are thus very easy to adapt to automatic control, whereas ICE have more complex control 
response and an auxiliary starting motor is required for automated starting. 
This paper presents a technique for determining the performance, feasibility and effectiveness of powerplant 
hybridisation for small UAS. A Hybrid Powerplant offers the possibility of a radical improvement in the 
autonomy of the aircraft for various tasks without sacrificing payload range or endurance capability. In this 
work a prototype Aircraft Hybrid Powerplant (AHP) was designed, constructed and tested. It is shown that an 
additional 35% continuous thrust power can be supplied from the hybrid system with an overall weight penalty 
of 5%, for a given UAS. 
Dynamometer and windtunnel results were obtained to validate theoretical propulsion load curves. Using 
measured powerplant data and an assumed baseline airframe performance characteristic, theoretical endurance 
comparisons between hybrid and non-hybrid powerplants were determined. A flight dynamic model for the 
AHP was developed and validated for the purposes of operational scenario analysis. Through this simulation it 
is shown that climb rates can be improved by 56% and endurance increased by 13%. 
The advantages of implementing a hybrid powerplant have been baselined in terms of payload range and 
endurance. Having satisfied these parameters, a whole new set of operational possibilities arises which cannot 
be performed by non-self-starting ICE only powered aircraft. A variety of autonomous robotic aircraft tasks 
enabled by the hybrid powerplant is discussed.