In the past 5 years, astronomy has become one of the biggest consumers of computing resources. Therefore, new computaAtional solutions (both hardware and software) are emerging, dedicated to various fields of this science. For example, in radioastronomy, instruments comprising of thousands of antennas generate huge amounts of data that have to be analyzed in a timely manner. As a result, large scale systems (both distributed and centralized) are employed for data gathering, filtering, analysis, and imaging. Furthermore, the Square Kilometer Array (SKA), a very large scale international project, seems to push the limits of radioastronomy data processing to further and further, as proven by pathfinders such as LOFAR, ASKAP, MeerKAT or anzSKA. 
 
All in all, it is expected that astronomy experiments will become larger in all dimensions: larger data collections, more accurate data analysis and processing, and more detailed results. This significant increase of the large-size experiments to be performed by the instruments built around the world require not only huge processing power, but also clever system design, all the way from the hardware construction to the software development and deployment. 
 
Therefore, we decided to organize a workshop dedicated to the specifics of high performance computing solutions used in astronomy - and this is how AstroHPC'12 was born. The workshop focuses on system design for large-scale astronomy systems. We aim to give specialists from both astronomy and computer science and engineering the opportunity to discuss both the requirements of large-scale high-performance computing systems suitable and/or usable for various astronomy applications, and practical examples of such designs and implementations. 
 
AstroHPC'12 will bring together researchers and practitioners in discussing and creating new knowledge about the astronomy infrastructure and the (computational) methods of the future. We have collocated AstroHPC'12 with ACM/IEEE HPDC 2012 (http://www.hpdc.org/2012/), because we believe astronomy is already an essential "consumer" of high performance and distributed computing, and we believe the community of HPDC can benefit from understanding and tackling some of the problems the astronomers are currently facing. 
 
The call for papers attracted nine submissions from Europe, South America, Australia, and the United States. The program committee accepted five papers: three focused on astronomy-based analysis, and two focused on using modern computing techniques to enable high performance computing for astronomy applications. In addition, the program includes three invited talks, presenting the challenges of the future of astronomy systems and feasible novel solutions for the data processing they will require.