It is my great pleasure to welcome all of you to the 24th ACM International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS'10) at Tsukuba International Congress Center, Tsukuba City, Japan. Through its long history over 20 years, ICS has been a symbolic conference of ACM for research on supercomputing from the architecture to the application fields as well as various related issues. 
 
The last ICS in Japan was held in 1993 in Tokyo, and it has come back after 17 years to Tsukuba City. Tsukuba City is well known as a symbolic city for various aspects of scientific research, referred as "Tsukuba Science City", which includes more than 30 of widely spread fields of national research institutes from the agriculture to the aerospace. The high-end computing researches both on systems and applications are also very active here, and the entire region provides an ideal environment for all kinds of collaborative research among different fields. Tsukuba City also can be easily accessed from Narita Airport, Japan's gateway, as an ideal place for international collaboration and meeting. We are truly pleased to welcome you in this wonderful city. 
 
The conference starts with one tutorial/workshop day on Tuesday with two attractive workshops HEART and IRMM and four tutorials on the state-of-the-art supercomputing technology, followed by three-day main conference program on Wednesday through Friday. In this year, we selected 32 papers through the excellent work by international technical program committee. Each morning will start with the wonderful keynote speech by Mr. Stephen Pawlowski from Intel, Prof. William Dally from Stanford University and NVIDIA, and Prof. Kimihiko Hirao from Riken. The first two keynotes may describe the current trend and future vision of supercomputing processors and systems as well as Japan's next generation supercomputer system with over 10 PFLOPS of performance and its research organization by the third keynote. In the intervals of technical sessions, please enjoy the poster session and vendor exhibition with coffee and snacks located to the next room of technical sessions. The nightly social events of reception and banquet may also provide a good opportunity for information exchange among all of attendees.