AI has long lead the march towards intelligent behavior in computer systems. This has lead to emergence of techniques in perceiving the world (e.g., web-based systems, vision, speech, NLP), manipulating internal representations (e.g., knowledge representation, logic, uncertainty, utility, constraints), analyzing information (e.g., search, learning, planning, scheduling) and altering the world (e.g., robotics, multi-agent systems). They have resulted in many applications with profound impact to our daily lives and remarkable commercial successes. The time has come for AI to address even more challenging problems. 
 
One such problem is sustenance and improvement of quality of life for global citizens despite over-population and limited resources. As the world's population increases and it puts increasing demands on the planet's limited resources due to shifting life-styles, we not only need to monitor how we consume resources but also optimize resource usage. Some examples of planet's resources citizens consume are water; energy sources --- hydrocarbons, electricity; air --- conversely, green-houses gases emitted; and food sources --- plants and animals. Everyone (individuals, enterprises, governments) can do something in their realm for reducing resource footprint to alleviate the worsening situation. This is both an ethically good thing to do as well as makes a lot of economic sense. 
 
Championing this cause, industry has started using the prefix "smarter" to cyber-physical systems, which involve sensing the data through physical instruments, interconnecting and integrating them from multiple sources and analyzing them for intelligent patterns. There are multiple domains, all converging on a broader "Smarter Planet" theme. Consider a city. The city management, citizens and businesses may be interested in optimizing their usage of energy and water, while providing efficient infrastructure, transportation and public safety to all participants. 
 
The trend towards optimized cyber-physical systems, however, is not new to AI and in fact a subset of what has been pursued as intelligent behavior, but on a much larger scale of people and resources involved. We believe that AI has a big role to play in making all the stakeholders in the scope under consideration (individuals, building, campus, city, leading to the planet), and hence the planet, intelligent.