Globalization of international accounting offers a highly disputed field for research during the last decades, generating a significant number of studies with corresponding variety and importance of the obtained results. A distinct positioning and importance must be given to those studies focusing on different aspects of the international accounting harmonization process since this research field represents the major objective of research activities being developed by many accounting professionals and universities during the last four decades. 
 
There could be mentioned four following dimensions of accounting harmonization: (i) pre-formal harmonization (i.e. the need for accounting harmonization); (ii) formal harmonization (i.e. the harmonization at the level of accounting regulations); (iii) material harmonization (i.e. degree of harmonization when considering accounting practices); and (iv) post-material harmonization (i.e. the costs of implementing global financial reporting standards). 
 
Studies in the area of international accounting harmonization focusing on measuring accounting harmonization document the fact that different measurement systems have been used over time up until the point where making a clear distinction in nowadays research is no longer possible. It was accounting practices which first represented the object of analysis in terms of quantifying the compatibility degree between accounting systems. It is therefore interesting to observe how material harmonization which actually represents the finish line of the accounting harmonization process was also the bloc start for research on accounting harmonization measurement. 
 
Qu and Zhang (2010) proposed a new method of matching and fuzzy clustering analysis to assess the convergence progress of national accounting standards with international referential. Single standards are clustered according to their convergence level, which may indicate further convergence emphasis. Fuzzy clustering analysis represents a method used in multivariate statistical analysis. Using this method is suited when aiming to divide a data set into groups or clusters that consist of similar data. Close or estranged relationships of cases are classified objectively by the measurements of similarity or distance. Their results reveal that this new method can measure the convergence level of national accounting system with IFRS more clearly and informatively.