We welcome you to New York and WWW2004, the thirteenth conference in the series organized by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee. This should be both an exciting conference and a very enjoyable experience. New York is a center of communications, media, education, finance, and international relations - all areas that are increasingly Web-dependent and Web-intensive. Attendees and special seminars will reflect those interests.The Program Co-Chairs, Marc Najork and Craig Wills, and the superb international Program Committee, have rigorously selected the Refereed Track and Alternate Track papers as well as the Posters. They have been very selective, and as usual, the quality of papers is very high. You can find information on all of these contributions on the CD and in the conference series archive. The technical focus of the world of the Web continues to shift, and this is reflected in the content of this conference.We hope you find the conference enjoyable, the content insightful, and that it helps move the WWW forward and onward.On behalf of the WWW2004 Program Committee, we are pleased to welcome you to Manhattan, the heart of New York City and the financial capital of the world.WWW2004 is the 13th conference in the International World Wide Web Conference series. We are pleased to publish these proceedings, which include alternate track and poster papers. This year, we received 86 submissions to the alternate tracks. We accepted 23 papers, along with two invited papers, for the proceedings and presentation at the conference, which translates into an acceptance rate of 26.7%. The program committee in four alternate tracks rigorously reviewed all papers. 
Education 
Industrial Practice 
Web of Communities 
Web Services 
 
There are also a number of papers being presented in the refereed papers track, which are being published separately from these proceedings. This year, we accepted 74 papers out of 506 paper submissions in the refereed papers track for an acceptance rate of 14.6%. Altogether, we received 592 paper submissions for both the refereed papers track and alternate tracks this year.In addition to paper submissions, we also received 223 poster submissions of which 44 where pre-accepted based on a prior paper submission. The remaining 179 poster submissions were reviewed and 102 were accepted for an acceptance rate of 57%. A two-page summary for each of the 146 accepted posters are included in these proceedings.