It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the Software Engineering in East and South Europe workshop -- SEESE'08. East and South European countries are going through a process of intensive changes and ICT plays an important role in supporting these changes. Most of the East and South European countries have a tradition of high quality education, in particular in natural and traditional technical sciences and thus have a good potential to take the new challenges. Today there is a strong need for advances and excellence in Software Engineering education and research, which are crucial for effective development of software industry in the region. 
 
The aim of this workshop is to bring together researchers and practitioners to discuss the strategic issues concerning SE development, research and education in East and South Europe. The current state, including problems, challenges and opportunities will be presented and discussed at the workshop. In particular, opportunities for international cooperation will be considered. 
 
The topics of the workshop are related to the specifics, then to the integration of research and practice in Software Engineering in the countries of South and East Europe, between these countries and between these countries and the countries of the EU and the US. 
 
The proceedings include 16 position papers, selected from 20 submitted. They cover topics of Software Engineering education, research and practice in East and South Europe describing specifics approaches in these countries, or giving some examples of successful or unsuccessful cooperation initiatives, and finally showing some technical achievements that illustrate the research of certain institutions or research centers. 
 
The program committee, the authors of the position papers, and most likely the majority of the participants are the researchers and practitioners from East and South Europe or those which have experience in cooperation with these countries. The aim of the workshop is to exchange the experience of challenges and ideas and we hope that you as participants will find the workshop as an inspiration and source of new ideas for further research and advances in the practice.