Welcome to UIST 2011, the Twenty-Fourth Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology. 
 
UIST is the premier forum for the presentation of research innovations in the software and technology of human-computer interfaces. Sponsored by ACM's special interest groups on computer-human interaction (SIGCHI) and computer graphics (SIGGRAPH), UIST brings together researchers and practitioners from many areas, including web and graphical interfaces, new input and output devices, information visualization, interactive displays, tangible computing, and computer supported cooperative work. The single-track schedule, intimate size, and location in Santa Barbara, "the American Riviera", make UIST 2011 an ideal place to exchange results and to forge future collaborations. 
 
We received 262 paper submissions from more than 20 countries. After a thorough review process, the program committee accepted 67 papers (25%). Each anonymous submission was reviewed by a primary program committee member and two external reviewers. If any of the three reviewers deemed a submission to pass a rejection threshold we asked a secondary committee member to write a fourth review of the paper. Authors then received all the reviews and if their paper passed the rejection threshold they had the opportunity to write a short rebuttal. The program committee met in person in San Francisco on June 17-18, 2011, to examine each submission and select the top papers. Submissions were finally accepted only after the authors provided a final revision addressing the committee's comments. 
 
In addition to the presentations of accepted papers, this year's program includes keynotes by Ge Wang (Stanford professor and co-founder of Smule) on computers and music and by Dan Jurafsky (another Stanford professor and MacArthur Fellow) on computational linguistics. Posters, demos, the eighth annual Doctoral Symposium, and third annual Student Innovation Content (this year focusing on Microsoft's new TouchMouse) complete the program.