The SHARK workshop focuses on current and emerging methods, languages, notations, technologies and tools to create, extract, represent, share, use and re-use architectural knowledge. Architectural Knowledge (AK) is the integrated representation of the software architecture of a software-intensive system (or a family of systems), including the architectural design decisions, and the external context/environment. It is increasingly recognized as the means for architecture governance; it facilitates and supports collaboration and the transfer of expertise. 
 
Architectural knowledge has been established within the software architecture community as a selfcontained research area, and brought along some promising research directions. In this workshop we discuss the issues that lead to the application of architectural knowledge in research and industrial practice; ongoing research and new ideas to advance the field. In its five previous editions we examined: the state of the art and practice (2006), future challenges and trends (2007), architectural knowledge as perceived by different research communities, including requirements engineering, service-oriented computing and international standardization (2008), the application, experimentation, specialization and use of architectural knowledge theory and approaches (2009), and the Body of Knowledge of the Software Architecture community (2010). 
 
In this sixth SHARK edition we plan to investigate the approaches for AK personalization, where knowledge is not codified through templates or annotations, but it is exchanged through the discussion between the different stakeholders. Therefore, the emphasis does not lie on resource-intensive documentation but on lightweight, just-in-time conversations facilitated by "knowledge yellow pages" (who knows what). The AK community has not explored AK personalization in depth, even though it has acknowledged its value as a viable approach. As SHARK is a discussion-intensive workshop, we will form small working groups that will discuss in detail the various aspects of AK personalization. The actual topics for discussion will be generated during the workshop with the following topics as a starting point: methods and tools for AK personalization, hybrid approaches (making the best of both personalization and codification), potential industrial practices or even full industrial case studies of AK personalization, and applying knowledge management theory of knowledge personalization.