It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2005 ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation - PLDI '05. This year's symposium continues its tradition of being one of the premier forums for presentation of research results and experience reports on leading edge issues of programming languages, compiler technology, and related programming system tools. PLDI gives researchers and practitioners a unique opportunity to share their perspectives on these various aspects of programming language design and implementation.The program includes a collection of 28 papers covering a broad range of issues, including traditional areas such as optimization, register allocation and type theory, along with new areas of interest such as debugging and verification tools, interfaces and dynamic analysis, threads, domain-specific tools and compilers for network processors. This breadth of topics reflects the growing diversity and importance of programming language research. In addition to the papers, we are fortunate to include an invited talk from Maurice Herlihy on new directions in software technology demanded by the coming generation of multi-core microprocessors. Additionally, six tutorials and a poster session showcasing student research will precede the main program.This year, a total of 135 submissions were received. The primary authors came from 21 different countries, with 12 submissions from the Asia-Pacific region, 17 from Europe, 3 from the Middle East, 1 from South America, and the remaining 102 from North America. Of the 135 submissions, 25 of the primary authors were from industry.Each paper was assigned to three program committee members for review. The committee members sought advice from external reviewers, but were responsible for representing the reviews. Prior to the program committee meeting, additional reviews were obtained for papers with conflicting reviews or low confidence reviews. For the second year, the PLDI review process included an author response period. The authors were given 2 days to comment on reviews during the ongoing review process. The program committee met on January 15, at USC/ISI, in Marina del Rey, CA. All seventeen members of the program committee, the program chair and the general chair participated in the program committee meeting.