It is our pleasure to welcome you to the 2014 Internet Measurement Conference. IMC has become the premier venue for measurement-based research into all kinds of networks that comprise the Internet ecosystem, and this year's program reflects that diversity of the IMC community. 
 
IMC 2014 received 188 papers of which 103 were long and 85 were short. As usual, we solicited both long papers with deep treatment of topics and short papers that convey exciting work in progress, offer high-level visions, or present more succinct viewpoints. We accepted 43 papers, comprised of 32 long papers and 11 short papers. Unfortunately, one accepted long paper was withdrawn by the authors at the time of camera ready version preparation due to a reversed decision on publishing the material by the company of some of the authors. This was unfortunate and we wishto remind our community that those who need approval to publish must complete that process before submitting papers for review. Hence 42 papers are published in this year's proceedings. 
 
As usual, we used a single-blind reviewing process, conducted over two rounds. In the first round, each paper was reviewed by three program committee (PC) members. The 115 papers selected for the second round were reviewed by at least one more PC member. In a few cases, we solicited 1-2 extra reviews from outside experts. The final decisions were based on all the reviews, extensive online discussions, and a day-long meeting. We wish to thank our talented, committed and hard working PC. Their rigorous reviewing and detailed insights were invaluable in this process. Many of our PC members made great efforts to attend the PC meeting, such as taking long international/overnight flights. 
 
We discontinued the recent experiment of publishing a review summary along with each paper. We reached this decision after conducting a survey of a large and diverse subset of the IMC community. In short, most people found the utility of review summaries to be unclear. Details about our survey can be found on the IMC 2014 website. 
 
We continued with the change made in 2012 for award papers, namely that of having two separate awards, one for the best paper and one for rewarding public release of datasets. 
 
This year's program contains a special session integrated into the Community Feedback Session entitled "Ethics and Measurement". Our measurement techniques have greatly evolved in ways that facilitate interesting research but sometimes touch the borders of privacy best practices. To help both authors and future PCs navigate this ambiguous border, the ACM SIGCOMM Executive Committee is considering setting up guidelines for SIGCOMM sponsored conferences, including IMC. With this special session, we begin that process by discussing issues that are central to drafting such guidelines.