It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 1st ACM MobiSys Workshop on Mobile Data (MobiData 2016). In this first edition, we aimed to attract early works in use of mobile data for novel applications. The Internet has been radically transformed since the introduction of smartphones in the last few years. The increasing processing power, connectivity modes, variety of sensors and features, and the personal, always-on nature of these devices have all led to an immense growth in the smartphone and data industry. With millions of apps that users can download, each able to access rich data about users via their smartphones, we are entering an unprecedented era of technology driven by personal and environmental data. 
 
A key factor driving growth in the mobile industry is the ability to infer rich data from individuals, perform behavioural analytics, provide personalized services, and/or deliver targeted ads. The capabilities and features of modern mobile technologies and the associated benefits and opportunities are not well explored yet. Mobile applications and services come with a range of technical, legal, societal and ethical challenges unseen in previous computing paradigms and networked systems. These range from excessive usage of bandwidth and power, to aggressive collection, management and careless share of personal information. Long term and sustainable growth in this space is dependable on the ability of the research, industry, and the developer community to address these issues with the user in mind. 
 
In this workshop we will bring together academic researchers and industry practitioners to present their latest research in the space of mobile data. We will aim to provide a forum for discussing early work, novel approaches, and controversial ideas in use of mobile data and systems and design of technologies that address the mentioned challenges. 
 
We also encourage attendees to attend the keynote presentation by Professor David Kotz: 
Security & Privacy for Healthcare Information Systems, David Kotz, Champion International Professor Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College 
 
 
 
We hope that you will find this workshop interesting and thought-provoking.