With the blessing of information technology, we are living in an increasingly networked world. People, information and other entities are connected via World Wide Web, email networks, instant messaging networks, mobile communication networks, online social networks, etc. These online networks grow fast and possess huge amount of recorded information, which presents great opportunities in understanding the science of these networks, and in developing new applications from these networks and for these networks. The increasingly networked society has fundamentally changed our way of thinking, individual behaviors and social activities. It is foreseen that the public health relating to epidemic diseases is greatly impacted by this emerging connectivity as they are by nature mediated by direct or indirect human interactions and mobility. However, new challenges have to be met --- the networks are huge and information is noisy, and they demand new methodologies in accessing and analyzing these networks, and in developing theories and applications for the networks. 
 
To meet with these challenges, researchers from a wide range of academic fields, including theory and algorithms, data mining and machine learning, computer systems and networks, statistical physics and complex systems, sociology, social psychology, economics and managerial science, etc. are all actively studying various aspects concerning social and information networks. 
 
However, we lack the proper opportunities for people from these diverse backgrounds to directly interact with each other. The diversity of approaches and methodologies to study various social networks has raised the need for an interdisciplinary effort to create the required expertise to address the fundamental open questions in this field. 
 
This workshop is intended to present such an opportunity and serve as a forum to bring together people from various fields to exchange their latest research results and to sparkle new ideas and directions to properly understand these networks. It will be held on August 12, 2012, in conjunction with ACM KDD 2012, August 12-16, Beijing, China.