It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 3 rd Joint WICOW/AIRWeb Workshop on Web Quality (WebQuality'13) organized in conjunction with the 22 nd International World Wide Web Conference in Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. The web has an increasing role in delivering information related to the personal and professional lives of hundreds of millions of people. Web content quality research is as relevant as ever and of increasing role in the context of social media that are growing both in size and complexity. The objective of this workshop is to provide the research communities working on web quality topics with a survey of current problems and potential solutions and a point of interaction between researchers and practitioners. Looking at the current as well as the past proceedings of the 2011, 2012 workshop's editions we can already describe some trends. While web search continues to be central, the workshop participants have examined other scenarios where credibility and quality issues are important, such as web applications. In addition, while the workshop presentations clearly emphasize the importance of practical aspects, there are also works that question and examine basic aspects of credibility and web quality. This year we invited two types of submissions: research papers and practice & experience reports. We have received 16 submissions in total from Asia, Europe, South and North America. After a careful review process, with at least three reviews for each paper the Program Committee has selected 4 full papers and 4 short papers. The accepted papers were thematically grouped into 3 sessions: " Web Content Quality " , " Industry Experience " and " Web Spam Detection ". We are also pleased to invite Ricardo Baeza-Yates from Yahoo! Research for giving a keynote talk titled " Web Search and Web Quality ". We would like to thank the authors of submitted papers and presenters as well as the participants for making this workshop a success. We also express our gratitude to the Program Committee for their hard and dedicated work. We hope that you will find this program interesting and thought-provoking and that the workshop will provide you with a valuable opportunity to share ideas with other researchers and practitioners from institutions around the world.