Dahlgren Division was tasked with investigating how to apply advanced technologies and concepts to the Naval Surface Ship Anti-Air Warfare (AAW) problem domain. The project was ordered by the Aegis Program Office (NAVSEA PMS 400) under the High Performance Distributed Computing Project (HiPer-D), and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)-sponsored Quorum Project. The first phase of the program, funded primarily by DARPA, involved developing a prototype of selected DARPA technologies, and then evaluating and demonstrating that prototype. The second phase, funded primarily by PMS 400, involved expanding and enhancing the prototype, as well as incorporating COTS and DARPA technologies. This phase focused on reducing risks that were identified by Aegis as critical technology and system issues. HiPer-D commenced in June 1991 with an overall goal of conducting critical experiments to assist Aegis in making the transition from a centralized, standard Navy computer architecture to a commercially based distributed architecture. The two principal engineering organizations performing the work in HiPer-D The HiPer-D Project Goals Today's tactical systems often exhibit degraded performance as the load increases. The HiPer-D goal was to define a new computer program and system architecture that fully exploited COTS technology. This allowed the team to investigate technologies that support real-time, distributed, scalable, fault tolerant, heterogeneous computing systems. The intended use of this newly architected combat system was the Aegis Baseline 7 combat system. To support Aegis Baseline 7 development, HiPer-D needed to provide solutions for the following technical challenges: • Fault tolerance via replication • Rapid upgrade • Technology insertion and refresh • Operational flexibility via dynamic resource allocation • Load-invariant computing performance via scalability and distributed processing • New tactical capability insertion via open system designs • Reduced life-cycle cost through use of the latest computing technologies HiPer-D Test Bed Demos There have been several HiPer-D Test Bed Demos over the past eight years. The first formal T1 test bed (May 15, 1995) yielded unprecedented results. The goal of this Phase 2 effort was to prove that COTS technology could support the engineering development of large scale, complex, distributed-based systems. Each successive demo produced significant findings, and DARPA and the Aegis Program Office continued to fund the HiPer-D effort. One of the technical objectives of the 1998 demo was to evolve toward long-term use of mid-dleware. This involved the integration of RTI Data Distribution Service (formerly NDDS) and CORBA ® middleware products. customer success US Navy …