Angular stabilization and reorientation of a space craft are the most frequently used dynamic regimes. The research programs conducted during the flight and the related stringent requirements for precision and efficiency of control over the spacecraft angular motion motivate the interest in the problem of optimization of the process of spacecraft reorientation. The significant increase in size, mass and active lifetime of orbital spacecraft supplied with systems of attitude control and correction leads to a sharp increase in the relative propellant load necessary for operation of the executing devices of the motion control system. The conception of the control of motion as the center of mass, as well as of the motion with respect to the center of mass of the spacecraft by means of non-central jet force is successfully used in designing the control system of rockets. Using and developing the above idea, one can economize a significant amount of fuel when designing systems of control of spacecraft motion. Such economy can be achieved by combining the regimes of attitude control and correction, accomplished through applying to the spacecraft the non-central force produced by the jet engine of the atti tude control system whose thrust vector does not pass through the spacecraft’s center of mass. The goal of optimally combining the regimes of correction and attitude control is advisable only for a certain class of spacecraft for which the condition Gc Go ≈ , holds true; here Gc and Go are the propellant loads intended for the orbit correction and the spacecraft attitude control, respectively. If inertial actuators (powered gyroscopes1 or gyro dynes) are used, then Go represents the fuel consumption necessary to compensate the inadmissi ble increase of angular momentum of the gyro-system. The considered class of spacecraft includes the long-term orbital stations also. In this paper, the problem of the optimal pro grammed turn of the spacecraft combined with correc tion of its orbit is considered in the general form. Let us assume that jet micro-engines are used as main actuators of the motion control system. In this case, possibilities to increase the efficiency of the spacecraft turn are related to three main directions: