feature of all of the problems discussed in this paper is that, in their initial formulation, they have a large num­ ber of elements with different names, and for this reason the problems seem to be difficult. However, the first attempts to solve the problems give the necessary heuristic information for simplification of the problem description and a reduction in the number of different names for the ele­ ments. We could say that the desire to cut down the number of names is a "global idea', but the choice of names and the algorithm of naming are contained in the first attempts. It is important to stress that the reduced description obtained is not always useful for the solution of the original problem, but it turns out to be useful for some of such problems. This paper shows that local attempts to begin to solve a problem can be very useful, as sometimes they let one simplify the pro­ blem description and thus facilitate the solution of the original problem. We feel that each time some heuristic is formulated (for instance, "try to occupy and to keep the center" in chess), it is formulated not because we know how to solve the total problem (how to win in chess), but as a result of studing some local subproblems. Of course, as this heuristic is formulated on the basis of some local consideration, its usefulness for the whole problem should be separately proved (theo­ retically or experimentally). One of the most interesting problems showing the importance of a good representa­ tion is the "Tough But" problem.1.2 The problem, briefly, is to prove the impossibi­ lity of fully covering a chessboard, with two diagonally opposite squares removed, using domino pieces. The black/white colo­ ring of the board leads to the simple solution. One could reason that the successful coloring of the board in this case is simply an "insight" which is a rather natural thing for a person familiar with the chess-Qoaro. from hie childhood. Here we will try, however, to look at this matter from a different point of view and to show how one could "make a guess" about the board coloring, without appeal to purely human experience. The difficulty of the Tough Nut problem in its initial formulation lies in the fact that one is given with the board description simply as a two-dimensional field || C ij)| , …