Partially observable stochastic games (POSGs) provide a powerful framework for modeling multi-agent interactions. While elegant and expressive, the framework has been shown to be computationally intractable [Bernstein et al., 2002]. An exact dynamic programming algorithm for POSGs has been developed recently, but due to high computational demands, it has only been demonstrated to work on extremely small problems. Several approximate approaches have been developed [Emery-Montemerlo et al., 2004; Nair et al., 2003], but they lack strong theoretical guarantees. In light of these theoretical and practical limitations, there is a need to identify special classes of POSGs that can be solved tractably. One dimension along which computational gain can be leveraged is by exploiting the independence present in the problem dynamics. In this paper, we examine a class of POSGs where the agents only interact loosely by restricting one another’s available actions. Specifically, rather than having fixed action sets, each agent’s action set is a function of the global state. The agents are independent from one another otherwise, i.e. they have separate transition and reward functions that do not interact. This class of problems arises frequently in practice. Many real world domains are inhabited by self-interested agents that act to achieve their individual goals. They may not affect each other in any way, except for occasionally putting restrictions on what each other can do. The best-known solution concepts in game theory are that of computing Nash equilibrium and performing strategy elimination. Our work addresses both of these solution concepts. First, we show that finding a Nash equilibrium where each agent achieves reward at least k is NP-hard. Another contribution of this work is that we present an exact algorithm for performing iterated elimination of dominated strategies. It is able to solve much larger problems than exact algorithms for the general class by exploiting problem structure.