Spiking neural networks(SNNs) have emerged as a promising solution for deployment on resource-constrained edge devices and neuromorphic hardware due to their low power consumption. Spiking transformers, which integrate attention mechanisms similar to those found in artificial neural networks (ANNs), have recently exhibited impressive performance. However, these models are large in size and involve high-volume computation in both time and space, posing significant challenges for efficient hardware acceleration. We present Bishop, the first dedicated hardware accelerator architecture and HW/SW co-design framework for spiking transformers that optimally represents, manages, and processes spike-based workloads while exploring spatiotemporal sparsity and data reuse. Specifically, we introduce the concept of Token-Time Bundle (TTB), a container that bundles spiking data of a set of tokens over multiple time points. Our heterogeneous accelerator architecture Bishop concurrently processes workload packed in TTBs and explores intra- and inter-bundle multiple-bit weight reuse to significantly reduce memory access. Bishop utilizes a stratifier, a dense core array, and a sparse core array to process MLP blocks and projection layers. The stratifier routes high-density spiking activation workload to the dense core and low-density counterpart to the sparse core, ensuring optimized processing tailored to the given spatiotemporal sparsity level. To further reduce data access and computation, we introduce a novel Bundle Sparsity-Aware (BSA) training pipeline that enhances not only the overall but also structured TTB-level firing sparsity. Moreover, the processing efficiency of self-attention layers is boosted by the proposed Error-Constrained TTB Pruning (ECP), which trims activities in spiking queries, keys, and values both before and after the computation of spiking attention maps with a well-defined error bound. Finally, we design a reconfigurable TTB spiking attention core to efficiently compute spiking attention maps by executing highly simplified “AND” and “Accumulate” operations. On average, Bishop achieves a 5.91 × speedup and 6.11 × improvement in energy efficiency over previous SNN accelerators, while delivering higher accuracy across multiple datasets.