Modern datacenter applications commonly adopt a microservice software architecture, where an application is decomposed into smaller interconnected microservices communicating via the network. These microservices often operate under strict latency requirements, rendering them particularly vulnerable to microarchitectural cold effects that may arise from the interleaved execution of services on cores or power-gating cores between invocations. Previous analyses of microservices find branch mispredictions due to cold predictor resources to be a significant contributor to performance degradation, indicating that the dynamic control flow must be very similar in the set and order of executed instructions across different requests. Our analysis of control-flow similarity across requests, using static and dynamic control flow information to determine dynamic control flow reconvergence, confirms that, indeed, a large portion of requests follow similar paths. Motivated by the above findings, we propose Similarity-based Branch Prediction (SBP), a hybrid predictor architecture that enhances conventional predictors with a similarity component. SBP leverages the control-flow similarity across microservice requests to predict control flow (branch direction and target) by utilizing the control flow of past executions encoded in a reference execution trace. We realize a specific instantiation of SBP, called CHESS, which combines a conventional history-based fetch predictor, a static-hint predictor, and a similarity predictor. CHESS judiciously applies similarity prediction for branches identified as hard-to-predict through conventional prediction techniques, effectively mitigating branch predictor cold-start effects while keeping the length of the reference trace practical. Evaluation through a suite of microservices shows that CHESS reduces branch MPKI by 94% over a cold fetch predictor and 78% over a state-of-the-art predictor, while requiring a modest 18.1KB of additional storage space. This enables CHESS to deliver performance that is, on average, within 95% of a warm baseline system.