It is undeniable that we are at pivotal point in human existence. Humans as a species have grown in population and infrastructure to the point where our collective actions are impacting nearly every living thing and natural process on Earth. The direct impacts are myriad: to list a few, crises such as climate change, mass extinctions (and the attendant loss of biodiversity), ocean acidification, soil and water contamination and degradation are now visible and growing in severity. Indirect impacts on the global population such as starvation, disease, natural disasters, and global reduction of quality of life are accelerating. We have reached a point where our current model of living is unsustainable. If we don’t take action now we will face ever increasing consequences and eventually reach a point where life as we know it on Earth will not be possible. So what can we do to achieve a sustainable lifestyle on earth? In this address I will reflect on that question and, perhaps surprisingly, observe that sustainability can only be achieved when framed as a (physical and cyber) security problem. We first have to define what it means to be sustainable. In its purest (idealized and simplified) form, sustainability is the practice of livingwithout having lasting impacts on the natural world. Terms like net-zero demonstrate this concept – for example, we should only use as much water as we collect and safely process, emissions created during energy generation must be offset by other processes that remove a like amount of pollution, and any tree cultivated for industry must be offset by planting another tree. A society that can do this for all of our resources can exist indefinitely. The United Nations interestingly frames it in terms of our responsibility to future generations, where they stated that sustainability is “meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs” [1]. How society decides to achieve sustainability is very much an open question. Regulatory structures, market incentives, education campaigns, among many strategies all seek to alter the actions of individuals or organization to align with sustainability goals. This has worked in many cases, but yet we are nowhere close to addressing the crisis before us. With all this action, then why aren’t we making more progress?