Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, affecting over 10 million people annually, with an estimated cost of $76.5 billion. Although apocynin freely transverses the blood–brain barrier (BBB), its application is limited due to its rapid elimination, low terminal half-life (t1/2 = 6.7 min), narrow dose–response relationship, and cytotoxicity, thereby requiring repeated dosages. With this study, we aimed to develop transferrin-functionalized nanoparticles encapsulating apocynin to treat neuroinflammation for targeted drug delivery to sites of brain injury. As a preliminary approach, we endeavored to optimize the formulation parameters of apocynin-loaded albumin nanoparticles prepared through the desolvation method. The nanoparticles were characterized for their size, polydispersity, surface charge, drug loading and in vitro drug release. In this study, we also investigated the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of free apocynin and nanoparticle-loaded apocynin in neuronal cells. We show that the developed formulation displayed monodispersed, nanosized particles with higher entrapment efficiency, loading, stability, and sustained release profiles. The permeability of the nanoparticles across HBMECs reached the maximum at 67%. The in vivo evaluation revealed the enhanced uptake of transferrin-anchored nanoparticles in the brain tissues when compared with unmodified nanoparticles after I.V. administration. In vivo nanoparticle localization studies using a blast TBI (bTBI) model and confocal fluorescence microscopy have shown that tf-apoANPs are successful in delivering relatively high amounts of nanoparticles to the brain parenchyma and glial cells compared to non-targeted nanoparticles. We also establish that targeted nanoparticles accumulate in the brain. In conclusion, tf-apoANPs are efficacious carriers for targeted delivery across the blood–brain barrier to potentially treat neuroinflammation in brain injury and other diseases.