The fluid flow and pressure ripples are one of the key factors that reduce durability and control accuracy of the hydraulic mechanical systems. The most effective method to suppress pulsations in wide frequency range is to use a semiactive resonant-type pulsation damper, which natural frequency changes in real time due to a stepless change in the volume of its cavity using a special actuator-drive. However, the change in the dynamic characteristics of the resonator with a change in the volume of its cavity is currently poorly understood. Therefore, the main purpose of this work is to determine the dynamic characteristics of the adaptive Helmholtz resonator with variable cavity volume. The cavity volume of the investigated pulsation damper changes due to the movement of the rod with the piston. The compliance of the cavity design was taken into account with the view to correct the value of the cavity volume. The corrected volume of the cavity is the internal volume of the cavity with absolutely rigid walls, the compressibility of the working fluid in which is equal to the compliance of the real cavity design filled with fluid, due to the compressibility of the fluid and increase in the volume of the cavity due to deformation of the walls. The corrected cavity volume was obtained using numerical methods. A static structural analysis of the resonator cavity was performed by ANSYS Workbench environment. As a result of this study, the dependences of the corrected cavity volumes on the position of the rod were obtained for two cases: with and without taking into account the compliance of the rod. The obtained dependences show that: the dynamic characteristics of the cavity significantly depend on the position of the piston due to a change in the compliance of the resonator barrel; the dynamic characteristics of the cavity significantly depend on the compliance of the rod. The results of this study can be used as the basis for the development and implementation of an automatic control system of the adaptive Helmholtz resonator.