The mechanical and chemical behaviors of cast cobalt-base superalloys are governed by the carbides and by a reactive element, which is often chromium. The content of this later element, which is efficient in resisting hot oxidation and also hot corrosion, may have consequences on the melting temperature, microstructure, and mechanical properties at high temperatures and at room temperature. Seemingly, the effect of chromium content on the microstructure and properties of cast equi-axed Co-Cr-Ta-C superalloys containing TaC as single reinforcing carbide and in high-enough quantities to achieve a high level of creep resistance has not been the subject of previous investigations. The present work is devoted to the exploration of this influence of Cr content on the as-cast microstructure of a model alloy in this category, as well as on its microstructure transformations at high temperatures. The work aims to help rate the Cr content to achieve the best characteristics in machinability and high-temperature properties. This is of great importance for fabricability (production cost) and sustainability in service (long enough lifetime performance). A series of six alloys derived from a rather well-known alloy and presenting various Cr contents were thus elaborated by casting. Their microstructures were investigated in their as-cast state as well as in an aged state resulting from a 4-day stage at 1400 K. Vickers indentation was also carried out to study how hardness may evolve with Cr content. It was seen that the higher the Cr content, the lower the solidus temperature, the coarser the TaC population, the harder the alloy, and the higher the risk of brittleness. In order to reach the best compromise, the preferred Cr weight content range, as identified by this work, is 20–30%; indeed, for such Cr contents: (1) the matrix is austenitic, then dense, and then hard and not brittle, and thus is mechanically resistant and tough; (2) the TaC carbides are script-shaped and resistant against morphology changes at high temperatures, and thus efficiently preserve interdendritic cohesion for a long time, and, consequently, (3) the alloys are machinable, have expected good toughness, and can be resistant against creep deformation as well as oxidation and corrosion at high temperatures thanks to the Cr content, allowing for chromium-forming behavior.