Multimedia content is of predominance in the modern Web era. Many recommender models have been proposed to investigate how users interact with items which are represented in diverse modalities. In real scenarios, different modalities reveal different aspects of item attributes and usually possess different importance to user purchase decisions. However, it is difficult for models to figure out users' true preference towards different modalities since there exists strong statistical correlation between different modalities. Even worse, the strong statistical correlation might mislead models to learn the spurious preference towards inconsequential modalities. As a result, when data (modal features) distribution shifts, the learned spurious preference might not guarantee to be as effective on inference as on the training set. Given that the statistical correlation between different modalities is a major cause of this problem, we propose a novel MOdality DEcorrelating STable learning framework, MODEST for brevity, to learn users' stable preference. Inspired by sample re-weighting techniques, the proposed method aims to estimate a weight for each item, such that the features from different modalities in the weighted distribution are decorrelated. We adopt Hilbert Schmidt Independence Criterion (HSIC) as independence testing measure which is a kernel-based method capable of evaluating the correlation degree between two multi-dimensional and non-linear variables. Moreover, by utilizing adaptive gradient mask, we empower HSIC with the ability to measure task-relevant correlation. Overall, in the training phase, we alternately optimize (1) model parameters via minimizing weighted Bayesian Personalized Ranking (BPR) loss and (2) sample weights via minimizing modal correlation in the weighted distribution (quantified through HSIC loss). In the inference phase, we can directly use the the trained multimedia recommendation models to make recommendations. Our method could be served as a play-and-plug module for existing multimedia recommendation backbones. Extensive experiments on four public datasets and four state-of-the-art multimedia recommendation backbones unequivocally show that our proposed method can improve the performances by a large margin.