Welcome to SIGCSE 2015, the 46th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education. This year's symposium presents the latest advances in computer science education in a variety of formats: papers, posters, panels, special sessions, workshops, birds of a feather meetings, and, new this year, demonstrations and lightning talks. This year's symposium theme is "Keep Connected. Keep Committed. Keep Computing." We are asking our attendees to consider how they can use the conference to keep connected to each other and the field, to keep committed to the cause of computing education, and most fundamentally, to keep computing and to demonstrate to all our students how exciting this field truly is. 
 
We are delighted to have Jessica Hodgins of Carnegie Mellon University and Disney Research giving SIGCSE 2015's opening plenary address on Thursday. Her work at Carnegie Mellon and Disney Research will demonstrate what new and exciting things will keep us computing in the coming years. Keith Hampton of Rutgers University is speaking at our Saturday luncheon. His work in social media demonstrates how keeping us connected is an important part of building strong relationships. Finally, it is our pleasure to announce the recipients of the two annual SIGCSE awards, the recipients of which demonstrate keeping committed to the field of computing education and to the SIGCSE organization and community. Frank Young of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology will receive the SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education Community, and will speak at our First Timer's Lunch on Thursday. (SIGCSE First Timers will receive their lunch for free. SIGCSE Old Timers are encouraged to purchase a ticket, join us for lunch, meet some First Timers, and recognize Frank's contributions.) Mark Allen Weiss of Florida International University is the recipient of the SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contributions to Computer Science Education. Mark will give the plenary address on Friday. 
 
As noted above, we are very excited to be introducing two new tracks for SIGCSE 2015. A Demos track will be presented in the exhibit hall during breaks, and a session dedicated to Lightning Talks will take place on Friday afternoon at 3:45pm. 
 
Symposium statistics are presented in the following table. This year's program includes the usual wide selection of events, including the Evening Reception on Thursday and the ACM SIGCSE Student Research Competition, as well as another puzzle challenge. Our exhibit hall features a number of exhibitors showcasing the latest in hardware, software tools, textbooks and educational programs and research. 
 
Proposal type 
Paper - Accepted - 105 Received - 289 Acceptance Rate - 36% 
Panel - Accepted - 10 Received - 18 Acceptance Rate - 56% 
Special Session - Accepted - 13 Received - 25 Acceptance Rate - 52% 
Workshop - Accepted - 30 Received - 71 Acceptance Rate - 42% 
Poster - Accepted - 51 Received - 117 Acceptance Rate - 44% 
Birds of a Feather - Accepted - 38 Received - 55 Acceptance Rate - 69% 
Demos - Accepted - 10 Received - 32 Acceptance Rate - 31% 
Lightning Talks - Accepted - 11 Received - 26 Acceptance Rate - 42% 
 
 
 
We encourage you to participate in our SIGCSE 2015 Pre-symposium Events. As of the publication deadline for this overview, meetings on the following topics will occur on Wednesday: ACM SIGCAS Symposium on Computing for the Social Good: Educational Practices, CSTeachingTips.org: Tip-A-Thon, GENI in your Classroom, Git and GitHub: Foundations for Educators, LittleFe Build-Out, Managing the Academic Career for Women Faculty in Undergraduate Computing Programs, SIGCSE 2015 Department Chairs Roundtable, and Teaching to Diversity in Computer Science.