The paper examines the simulation of the basic mechanisms of the chess endgame problem solution by man. The experimental results of a psychological investigation into the mechanics of structurisation,ge-neralization, and goal formation of a situation have been presented and a semi-otic system of formation of generalised imitation models have been discussed which forme the basis for human decision-making. The analysis of the literature on the simulation of chess game have led to a conclusion that various chess programs were considered by their originators as a theory or model of real activity of human chessplayer. In this connection,to clarify the nature of the difficulties in simulating chess game is to clarify to what extent chess programs are actually in compliance with a chess player's real activity they are to simulate. The majority of program designers who simulated the activity of a chess player considered this activity as passing through a labyrinth having a certain initial stage (area,graph vertex) and the labytinth point which is to be reached. If the activity is understood as above, it is of prime importance to find the ways of reducing the volume of the chess labyrinth. A special problem presents Itself-the problem of redicing the tasks of the tree of chess game. This limitation of chess programming is especially clear when one approaches the final stage of the game-the endgame. An optimum endgame suggests, to a greater extent than the other game stages,a calculation for many moves ahead. It is this circumstance that makes ineffective, in respect to endgame, the majority of existing programs designed for compute-rising a chess game. Limited possibilities of the depth of analysis and the fact that the planning in these programs does not exceed several moves ahead has led to a conclusion that the problems of chess endgame cannot be solved with existing means of programming. A correlation between the principles of programming and the results of analysts of human activity shows that the basic difficulty of the programming lies in that the available means of mathematical description of activity fail to adequately describe the process of establishing relations , the process of comprehending a position, which precedes and determines the formation of a variant. It can be concluded that the use of a language describing the process of establishing relations will enable one to get over some difficulties of chess programming and to lay down the ways of computerising endgame …