(To be published in EAA Experimenter magazine) Greg Gremminger is a member of the Popular Rotorcraft Board of Directors. He is chairman of the ASTM Gyroplane Light Sport Aircraft subcommittee developing the Design and Performance standard for light sport gyroplanes. He has flown general aviation and Experimental aircraft for over 30 years. He had built and flown various ultralight airplane models over a 15 year period. He has built and flown gyroplanes for 18 years, including redesigns to experiment with and incorporate various stability enhancement features and principles. Gremminger is currently the U.S. Distributor for the Magni line of gyroplanes produced in Italy. Aerodynamic technology is changing the shape of Gyroplanes. With stability issues addressed, Gyroplane popularity is poised for resurgence.-It's not your father's Gyrocopter! Re-engineered and reborn with newly appreciated and applied technology, the venerable autogyro of the nostalgic 30's has evolved through the old Bensen gyrocopter of our youth, beyond the backyard " gyro, " to the new generation of the practical " Gyroplanes. " Nearly as old as the airplane itself, the autogyro was invented in the early 1920's to address the nasty habit of fixed wing airplanes to stall and spin and do more nasty things to the intrepid aviator. Through nature's miracle of autorotation, borrowed from the common maple tree seed, the new generation of gyroplanes today stands revitalized and ready to fill its potential to be the safest and most capable light sport aircraft available. Gyroplanes are truly unique aircraft. The inherent physics of the free spinning, autorotating rotor offer unique advantages over other aircraft " wings. " The autorotating rotor will not stall. Once in the air, the rotor automatically and naturally adjusts its speed to carry the load presented to it, like having an automatically variable wing area. Whether moving forward through the air at top speed, descending vertically at zero airspeed, pulling high Gs in a pinpoint turn, or landing like a bird in short spaces at barely a running pace, the rotor offers dramatic authority over the wind and responsive control for the pilot without fear of stall, loss of control or sudden upset. Centripetal forces in the spinning rotor stiffen the seemingly spindly blades to reliably support the full load and maneuvers of the gyroplane-without the structural and configuration penalties of long cantilevered or trussed wings. The resulting compact and stout airframes are simple, rugged and straight forward construction. …