Computer Graphics is maturing and is emerging as a discipline, much in the way that artificial intelligence, robotics, and cognitive science have emerged. Computer graphics is also broadly based, with contributions from the arts, computer science, engineering, physical sciences, and even psychology. The panelists, members of ACM-SIGGRAPH's Education Committee, will discuss the basis of computer graphics in these areas and efforts to bridge the gaps between these disciplines. After the prepared statements there will be a " round table " discussion on the effects of a unified view of the discipline on courses and curricula in computer graphics in both computer science and the arts. The image of computer graphics as an area concerned with the production of " pretty pictures " is a result of the lack of familiarity with the true nature of the discipline. The days of graphical trickery and ad-hoc methods are nearly over, now that computer power can handle complex computations. State of the art in image synthesis requires an understanding of energy transfer, light refraction/reflection, and physically-based modeling. Images of natural phenomena are based on formal language grammars and statistical models, and behavioral models are used for actors in animation sequences. Some graphics algorithms are so basic, that they can be used in core computer science courses to make introductory programming more enjoyable. Recent work on scientific visualization has made it clear that much more is involved in computer graphics than just hardware and algorithms. Effective computer graphics also involves visual communication with the audience reached by the images it produces. Thus persons in computer graphics may need to know something about a variety of areas: engineering to design and implement graphics devices, computer science generally and especially graphics algorithms to create software to show the images that are desired, physical sciences to simulate various physical phenomena in images, art and design to make these images communicate with the viewer, or psychology to understand how the viewer will perceive the images. Together, appropriate parts of these subjects may be seen to make up the discipline of computer graphics, and someone who practices computer graphics probably should be aware of the contributions of each of these areas. Images created with computers require the application of visual communication skills to be most successful. Fine artists and designers alike are educated to be sensitive to design elements and principles. Basic elements and principles such as color, contrast, …