During software development, developers often make numerous modifications to the software to address existing issues or implement new features. However, certain changes may inadvertently have a detrimental impact on the overall system performance. To ensure that the performance of new software re-leases does not degrade (i.e., absence of performance regressions), existing practices rely on system-level performance testing, such as load testing, or component-level performance testing, such as microbenchmarking, to detect performance regressions. However, performance testing for the entire system is often expensive and time-consuming, posing challenges to adapting to the rapid release cycles common in modern DevOps practices. In addition, system-level performance testing cannot be conducted until the system is fully built and deployed. On the other hand, component-level testing focuses on isolated components, neglecting overall system performance and the impact of system workloads. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to early detection of performance regressions by bridging the local performance data generated by component-level testing and the system-level architectural models. Our approach uses local performance data to identify deviations at the component level, and then propagate these deviations to the architectural model. We then use the architectural model to predict regressions in the performance of the overall system. In an evaluation of our approach on two representative open-source benchmark systems, we show that it can effectively detect end-to-end system performance regressions from local performance deviations with different intensities and under various system workloads. More importantly, our approach can detect regressions as early as in the development phase, in contrast to existing approaches that require the system to be fully built and deployed. Our approach is lightweight and can complement traditional system performance testing when testing resources are scarce.