The assignment of property rights has important implications for both economic efficiency and the distribution of surplus within society. Consequently, there are trade-offs associated with the design of these rights. Awarding a full property right over an economic resource incentivizes the owner to make efficient investment decisions related to its use. However, when transaction costs are present, strong property rights may inhibit the future reallocation of economic resources to agents who can utilize them most efficiently. Moreover, the assignment of property rights may give rise to market power or conflict with society's distributive objectives. This raises a natural question: How should property rights be optimally designed? In this paper we focus on a specific channel through which property rights impact economic interactions: They give the holder the authority to unilaterally implement certain outcomes pertaining to an underlying economic resource, and thereby determine the holder's outside options in economic interactions. This simplified perspective allows us to use mechanism-design techniques to characterize optimal property rights. Our framework highlights the key trade-offs involved in the design of property rights by recasting this problem as a dynamic contracting problem between a designer, a principal and an agent. An agent makes an investment decision affecting her private valuation for an economic resource, and then participates in a trading mechanism chosen by a principal in a sequentially rational way, leading to a hold-up problem. A designer---who would like to incentivize efficient investment and whose preferences may differ from those of the principal---can endow the agent with a menu of rights that determine the agent's set of outside options in the interaction with the principal. By strengthening the agent's rights, the designer affects the agent's investment incentives as well as the principal's flexibility at the stage of choosing a trading mechanism. We characterize the optimal menu of rights for the agent as a function of the designer's and the principal's objectives, and the investment technology. Our main finding is that the optimal property right is relatively simple but more flexible than a full property right. In particular, the optimal menu requires at most two types of rights. One of the rights takes the form of an option-to-own. An option-to-own gives the agent the right to retain control over the resource conditional on paying a pre-specified price. The second type of right in the optimal menu is only required if the agent's cost of investing is sufficiently high and its form depends on whether the designer can make the agent's rights contingent on investment. If investment is observable (and contractible), then the second right takes the form of a cash payment for undertaking the investment. If investment is not observable (and hence non-contractible), then the second right takes the form of a partial property right that awards the agent control over a fraction of the resource (or, equivalently, gives the resource to the agent with some probability). Full paper: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4637366