It has long been known that third degree price discrimination --- the practice of charging different prices to consumers in distinct market segments--- may increase or decrease consumer surplus. However, the potential benefits for consumers of third degree price discrimination when the seller can simultaneously engage in second degree price discrimination is more limited. We study the interplay between second and third degree price discrimination, with a particular focus on how and when market segmentation benefits consumers. We consider a multi-product monopolist who can engage in both second and third degree price discrimination. Consumers have multi-unit linear demands and their marginal utility (their value) is their private information. The seller's optimal strategy consists of posting an item price for each product. The model is mathematically isomorphic to one in which the seller offers products of varying quality that have different production costs: it suffices to consider each quality increment as a distinct product, and the marginal cost of each quality increment is the cost of each distinct product. We begin by characterizing a family of extremal distributions, built on the generalized Pareto distribution, such that all achievable divisions of surplus can be reached by selecting segments from within this family. These distributions are constructed such that each value in the support is an optimal price for at least one good. We leverage this characterization to investigate the interplay between second and third degree price discrimination, focusing on the consumer-optimal market segmentation. In the consumer-optimal segmentation, the price of the most expensive good always goes down relative to the aggregate market, but the prices of other goods may rise. We characterize aggregate markets such that price discrimination can lower the cost of every good in every segment. We show that consumers with sufficiently high values (relative to cost) face third but not second degree price discrimination; similarly, sufficiently low cost goods are always bundled in every market segment. Hence, for low-cost goods and high value buyers, segmentation serves as a substitute for screening in the consumer-optimal segmentation. In contrast to the single-good monopolist, where the consumer-optimal segmentation induces an efficient allocation without increasing seller profits, here the consumer-optimal segmentation may increase the seller's profits or induce an inefficient allocation (or both). We provide conditions such that the consumer-optimal segmentation is efficient; nevertheless, typically this segmentation leaves the seller with more profits than in the aggregate market, so the consumers cannot appropriate all the efficiency gains generated by market segmentation. We also provide conditions such that any market segmentation is detrimental for consumers. A full version of this paper can be found at https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12366.