Growing evidence suggests that breaking dominant strategy incentive compatibility in favor of increasing a mechanism's transparency---i.e., allowing agents to observe more about others' past moves---may sometimes achieve closer conformity to the designer's objective. To help increase the practical efficacy of mechanism design, in this paper we provide a theoretical framework to predict in advance when this is the case. First, we show that, apart from exceptional cases, given a dominant strategy mechanism there is always a more transparent mechanism which implements the same outcome, but only in an ex-post equilibrium. Since ex-post equilibria rely on much stronger assumptions than dominant strategies, this implies that the designer faces a trade-off between the strength of the strategic incentives and the transparency of the mechanism. Next, to help designers resolve this trade-off, we identify a novel class of mechanisms which achieve a theoretical middle ground between dominant strategy incentives and ex post equilibria. An as-if dominant strategy mechanism is such that, as long as all agents believe that the others play as if they were in a static mechanism: (i) Each of them has a strategy that is optimal no matter what others do, and (ii) any profile composed only of such strategies is an ex-post equilibrium. We show that, jointly, as-if dominance and transparency can rationalize the choice of auction format made by prominent online platforms, such as eBay. In particular, we show that the auction format these platforms choose---which is neither dominant strategy nor fully transparent---achieves maximal transparency within the set of as-if dominant strategy second-price auctions with asynchronous bids. Moreover, our approach provides a unified explanation for the experimental findings that transparent mechanisms can outperform their dominant strategy counterparts. These experiments range from matching to multi-unit auction environments. Finally, we show that mechanisms satisfying a refinement of as-if dominance are also solvable by iterated elimination of weakly dominated strategies. A full version of this paper can be found at: https://tinyurl.com/asifdominance.