Coordination and learning both play fundamental roles in social and economic life. For instance, investors would like to coordinate their loan decisions with other investors, but also learn over time about the profitability of a company; consumers would like to adopt a networked product if other consumers do the same, but also learn over time about the quality of the product; citizens would like to protest if others also turn out, but also learn over time about the venality of the current regime. In each of these examples, whether coordination succeeds or fails is shaped by the dynamic information environment---who learns what, what is learnt, and how quickly. Thus, dynamic information is a powerful tool for shaping coordination outcomes. Motivated by such questions, we study the design of dynamic information in a continuous-time binary-action supermodular game with small frictions: each agent can only re-optimize their action at random arrival times (e.g., the ticks of an independent personal clock). There is public learning so the common belief μt at time t governs aggregate incentives. Switching frictions introduce intertemporal linkages: an agent with the opportunity to re-optimize at time t knows that after t, she is locked into her action until the next tick of her clock. Thus, the behavior of other players in the future---which depends on the future path of beliefs---matter for current incentives. But the behavior of those agents, in turn, depends on other agents further yet into the future which themselves depends on the path of beliefs even further out. Thus, the evolution of future beliefs---even those arbitrarily far into the future---shapes incentives in the present. Our first main result is that for general supermodular games with switching frictions, the dynamic information structure which uniquely implements the largest perfect Bayesian equilibrium across time is noisy and conclusive public bad news. There is no multiplicity gap---the largest implementable equilibrium is also uniquely implementable. Importantly, such information structures are public and employ the expected dynamics of future (first-order) beliefs to uniquely implement the largest equilibrium while leaving higher-order beliefs degenerate. Indeed, we show that the designer cannot do better with private information. Furthermore, there is no intertemporal commitment gap---such information structures are sequentially optimal for a designer whose payoff is increasing in the measure of agents taking the largest action---as such, the designer cannot do better by committing to the design of future information. The optimality of noisy conclusive bad news is driven by three essential properties: it is (i) asymmetric so that the probability that beliefs move up is larger than the probability they move down; (ii) noisy so that beliefs do not, in expectation, move very much before the next tick of her clock; and (iii) history-invariant so that the optimal continuation structure from time t is the same no matter what the history of aggregate play and belief path up to and including time t is. All three properties---asymmetry, noise, and history-invariance---are essential. If the belief process were noisy but symmetric, then the agent whose clock has ticked at t with belief μt anticipates that beliefs are equally likely to move up or down. Indeed, if the environment is also symmetric, this would select a version of risk-dominant equilibrium. If the belief process were asymmetric but precise, she then puts more weight on conclusive bad news arriving before the next tick---thus, her fear of miscoordinating with future agents responding to this bad news would dominate. If the belief process were not history-invariant, then solving for the optimal continuation information structure at time t to implement the action 1 on the largest set of time-t beliefs does not suffice for dynamic optimality. History-invariance bridges this gap. We then analyze an extension of our environment in which agents have access to additional exogeneous sources of information. Thus, the designer no longer has monopoly over the information structure and can only add but not remove information. We characterize optimal adaptive information structures for full dynamic implementation.1 Whenever beliefs are above an endogeneous "switching boundary", it continues to deliver conclusive bad news at a trivial rate. However, when the exogeneous signals are sufficiently negative so that, sans extra information, beliefs would fall below the endogeneous boundary, the adaptive policy gives conclusive bad news at an elevated rate such as to approximately offset realizations of the exogeneous signal process. This intervention itself alters the "switching boundary" but we show that it is nonetheless dynamically optimal. As in the case where the designer has full control over dynamic information, there is no multiplicity gap and no intertemporal commitment gap. Our results have wide applicability to macroeconomics (Calvo price setting with complementarities), finance (staggered debt contracts and rollover risk), industrial organization (incumbent vs entrant platform competition), and political economy (dynamic regime change games). A full version of this paper can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4669928