In this paper, we analyze a novel information-sharing policy to reduce stockouts and improve performance on online grocery retail platforms. Stockouts are particularly relevant to our setting, as online platforms lack control over retailers' inventory management, and consequently when/whether items are in stock. Our policy involves leveraging the digital interface of online platforms to disseminate information about delivery windows when retailer stock levels are at their peak. Ex-ante, it is unclear if such a policy would positively influence customers' purchasing patterns, particularly in terms of its impact on platforms' fundamentals. On the one hand, this information might not be informative to customers, having already been factored into their optimal delivery window decision. Alternatively, customers may be limited in their cognitive abilities and ignore stock information when choosing delivery windows. In addition, sharing information about high-stock delivery windows might raise customer awareness (or aversion) regarding stockouts, potentially decreasing the conversion rate. We conducted a large-scale field experiment on over 1M users on Instacart, an online grocery delivery platform. In this experiment, customers in the treatment group were prompted "Higher stock at this time" under delivery windows corresponding to peak supermarket stock levels. We find our cost-free information-sharing policy significantly affected customer behavior, as well as order fulfillment rates. Our main results can be summarized as follows: • Customers' conversion rates, in addition to the propensity to pick high-stock delivery windows, increases significantly. Customers who had more flexible delivery windows pre-experiment showed a stronger response. • Item refund and replacement rates decreased by 2.2% and 2.7%, respectively. Furthermore, we estimate a significant increase in order GMV, and time spent shopping. • Treated customers increase orders from stores they have not previously ordered from and order novel items, suggesting sharing high stock information encourages customers' exploratory behaviors. Our findings suggest simple information sharing policies can increase customer orders, enhance their willingness to explore new products and retail partners, and potentially lead to a significant positive long-term impact on platform fundamentals. A full version of this paper can be found at https://tinyurl.com/HighStockDeliveryWindows