The increasingly prevalent "fulfillment by platform" practice in the digital economy (e.g, Fulfillment by Amazon launched in 2006, JD marketplace in 2010, Fulfilled by Sears in 2013, Fulfillment by Shopee in 2022) presents platforms with the unique challenge of managing their third-party sellers' self-interested inventory decision-making. In this work, motivated by the platform's natural matchmaking mechanism, we explore a novel idea to mitigate this challenge via a demand mechanism called demand nudging. Demand nudging is a proactive conduct of product substitution among substitutable sellers through offering coupons to customers, hence nudging their preferences and the sellers' demands. Demand nudging shapes the sellers' perceived demands, and incentivizes them to make platform-favorable inventory decisions. To this end, we study a stylized Stackelberg game between a platform and a continuum of third-party sellers selling substitutable products on the platform. The platform aims to design a demand nudging policy to maximize profit, while the sellers, in response, determine their inventory according to the post-nudge demand in a newsvendor manner. Our paper sheds light on the following important questions. 1) Whether and how do demand nudging mechanisms help with the decentralized inventory management challenge arising in FBP? 2) How does this mechanism affect market participants, given both its positive effect of risk pooling and negative effect of possibly nudging away the sellers' demands? 3) How does this novel mechanism compare with other existing approaches such as pricing and contract design? We establish in closed form the platform's optimal policy. It employs a simple defluctuating cut-off structure and resembles risk pooling in the centralization setting where the platform can make joint demand-substitution and inventory decisions. We show that this control is always Pareto-improving for both the platform and the seller under a mild condition despite its power on the off-equilibrium path. Furthermore, when the products are substitutable enough, the platform-optimal demand nudging is win-win-win for all parties (the platform, the sellers, the customers), and the platform can achieve its centralization benchmark. On the contrary, if the products are not substitutable enough, the platform's service level to the customers may, in certain primitive regimes, decrease. This mechanism is orthogonal to traditional supply chain management approaches, meaning that the platform can simultaneously implement demand nudging and other approaches such as pricing and contract design, and enjoy the benefit from both. The full version of this paper is available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4727705.