Individual mobility patterns have a first-order impact on many operational decisions, ranging from facility location decisions to the optimization of transit systems. In the past, obtaining data on individual mobility patterns was a challenging task. However, in recent years, such data have been extensively collected via mobile phones. Moreover, various data providers have made these data available at scale, enabling decision makers to leverage them for large-scale analysis. Last decade has witnessed impactful practical applications of the facility location problem. Not surprisingly, seeing the potential of mobility data in these settings, firms have started exploring how to leverage mobility data to improve facility location decisions. However, the approaches used in practice are often ad hoc, and a systematic approach to optimize facility location decisions in the presence of mobility data has been lacking. In our paper, we aim to introduce new methodologies and important algorithmic contributions to this problem. Our work focuses on a model that respects the main elements of the mobility data available in practice. Specifically, due to privacy concerns and other data limitations, many mobility datasets only record the places most frequently visited by anonymous individuals, such as their home and work locations. Motivated by this, we introduce two-location facility location problem (2-LFLP): given a city with n locations with heterogeneous facility opening costs, a decision maker wants to choose a subset of locations to open her facilities. The goal is to minimize the total cost of the society, which is the sum of (i) facility opening costs from chosen locations and (ii) each individual's "connection cost" to a facility. Specifically, each individual is endowed with two locations (e.g., home and work locations), and her connection cost is the minimum of the distances between any of her locations and its closest facility. We initiate the study of the 2-LFLP and its extensions. As the main results, for the 2-LFLP, we propose a polynomial-time algorithm with a constant approximation ratio between [2.428, 2.497]. Furthermore, we show that no polynomial-time algorithm can achieve an approximation ratio smaller than 2 under UG-hardness. Our approximation ratio analysis relies on a novel strongly factor-revealing program argument, which might be of independent interest. Our framework is general and flexible, and we illustrate this by extending our techniques to two generalizations of the problem in which (i) each individual is endowed with K(> 2) locations, and (ii) each individual's connection cost is computed via a multinomial logit choice model. A full version of this paper can be found at https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4324967.