Rewards such as prizes, labels, certifications, grants, market authorizations, positions or promotions are often allocated conditionally on a measured characteristic (or aggregate)---a score---resulting in an assortative matching of scores and rewards. In many contexts, it is natural to think of scores and rewards as complements in the designer's preferences, which rationalizes assortativity. This is the case, for example, when allocating productive resources, such as grants, to agents of heterogeneous productivity. Screening on scores, however, gives agents strong incentives to invest in the underlying characteristic, and also, possibly, to manipulate its measure. For instance, environmental certification may lead firms to engage in emissions abatement and greenwashing. We study how to optimally allocate rewards when: (i) the underlying characteristic and reward are complements, and (ii) agents can invest to enhance their score (and, to some extent, manipulate). Our main result is that, with bounded rewards that are freely available to the designer (or have a linear real or shadow price), it is optimal to use cutoff rules that promise the highest reward to agents with a score above threshold, and nothing otherwise. In particular, intermediary rewards and randomization are useless. While cutoff rules are clearly optimal without investment or manipulation, their robustness is somewhat surprising. Indeed, under complements, the designer benefits most from the investment of high-score agents, who get high rewards. However, cutoff rules inhibit investment at the top of the distribution, for agents above the threshold. Furthermore, cutoff rules are generally suboptimal under money burning [e.g., Kleiner et al., 2021, Proposition 4] or pure manipulation [Perez-Richet and Skreta, 2022]. Model. In our model, there is a unit mass of agents, each of whom is endowed with an initial type that corresponds to the score they would obtain without intervention. Agents can modify their score, or measured type, at an increasing and convex cost. The designer has access to rewards of bounded values that are available either freely, or at a linear (real or shadow) price. An agent's worth for the designer, which we may view as her true final characteristic, is strictly increasing in her measured type and weakly in her initial type. This specification captures both investment and manipulations. Under pure investment, an agent's worth is exactly her measured type. With both investment and manipulations, an agent's worth is a convex combination of her initial and measured types. We assume agents' and designer's preferences are all linear in reward value. In addition, agent worth and reward value are complements for the designer. At the outset, the designer commits to a score-based allocation rule, to which agents respond by choosing their score. Main Result. We show that it is optimal to allocate rewards using a cutoff rule that promises the highest reward to agents with a score above a threshold, and nothing below. In the paper, we provide general sufficient conditions on the cost and worth functions and on the type distribution for the result to hold. In this paragraph, to clarify the discussion, we assume a quadratic cost function, and a linear worth function. Our result then holds under two additional assumptions. First, the relative weight of the score in the worth function is sufficiently high, indicating that the investment channel is sufficiently strong relative to manipulations. Second, the type distribution has a decreasing density for types that may be induced to invest toward a positive worth, which we can interpret as saying that agents worth rewarding are in the upper tail of the distribution. Methodology. As in [Manelli and Vincent, 2007], we approach the designer's problem as one of functional optimization over the indirect utility of agents. In our problem, indirect utilities are c-convex functions (where c stands for the cost function). The theory of these functions plays an important role in optimal transport, and has been applied to optimal screening by [Carlier, 2001] and [Figalli et al., 2011]. Building on their work, we show that the set of feasible indirect utilities can be partitioned into compact and convex subsets. Using techniques from the calculus of variations, we find that the designer's objective is a convex functional of indirect utility. The Krein-Milman theorem and Bauer's maximum principle then imply that there is a solution to our problem that is an extreme point. We characterize the extreme points, and show that, in each subset of the partition, there is an extreme point corresponding to a cutoff rule that dominates all others. Discussion. While it might seem that the designer could benefit from a standard mechanism with communication [Myerson, 1982], a version of the taxation principle [see Perez-Richet and Skreta, 2024] implies that score-based rules are equivalent to standard mechanisms with deterministic investment recommendations. Furthermore, a condition on costs (including the quadratic case) ensures that stochastic recommendations are suboptimal. We also show that our main result is robust to the designer weighing in the welfare of agents, as long as all agents have a positive worth regardless of investment choice. The full paper is available at https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.11805.