Nonprofit fundraising websites often display a set of donation amounts, allowing prospective donors to effortlessly select an amount from this menu of suggestions instead of manually inputting their ideal donation. Although this strategy is effective at shaping behavior, it can also backfire: suggested amounts ("defaults") attract donors with both lower and higher ideal donations, potentially leading to a net decrease in revenue. To address this challenge, we present a comprehensive framework for designing a menu of defaults to maximize fundraising revenue in the presence of heterogeneous donors. Given the combinatorial number of different menus, it is generally infeasible to enumerate over all possibilities; in addition, our analysis reveals significant limitations of a greedy approach. Instead, we design an algorithm based on dynamic programming principles that efficiently finds an optimal menu. Our approach leverages the observation that --- under our model of a utility-maximizing donor --- the donor will only consider three donation amounts: (i) their ideal amount, (ii) the closest default below their ideal amount, and (iii) the closest default above their ideal amount. This spatial structure allows us to establish a connection to facility location problems on the real line, which we leverage in the design of our algorithm. Our approach continues to be effective even when relaxing our behavioral assumptions in model extensions. Additionally, we shed light on the value of information by comparing against the full information benchmark that knows the largest amount that each donor would select. If the nonprofit has information about each donor's ideal donation, it can obtain a constant-factor guarantee with respect to the full-information benchmark. If the nonprofit only has distributional information, we characterize how the guarantee depends on donor heterogeneity and the size of the menu. Our results highlight the value of market segmentation as well as the potential advantages of larger menus. As a case study, we apply our end-to-end methodology to experimental data from Altmann et al. [2019]. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that the optimal menu could increase revenue by more than 3%. The full paper can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4733483.