Online platforms that rely on commission fees are vulnerable to disintermediation, where buyers and sellers transact off-platform to avoid fees. This phenomenon can significantly reduce platform revenue and, in extreme cases, threaten the platform's viability. For sellers, disintermediation involves giving up the platform's protections against risky buyers (e.g., payment delays or fraud). Sellers must therefore weigh the benefits of avoiding commissions against exposure to potentially risky buyers, with their decision primarily influenced by the quality (or accuracy) of buyer information provided by the platform (e.g., through a reputation system). This paper examines how the threat of disintermediation impacts the platform's optimal pricing strategy, revenue, and information quality. In our model, sellers transact with buyers either on the platform - for a fixed commission - or bypass the platform completely and negotiate an off-platform price. Buyer types are private information; in particular, "risky" buyers impose higher transaction costs on sellers in both channels, and additionally withhold payment in the offline channel. To capture information quality, we assume the platform has a technology that generates, with varying degrees of accuracy, a noisy signal of the buyer's type. Our results are summarized as follows. First, in the absence of the offline channel, platform revenue weakly increases in information quality under any fixed commission rate as established in previous works. However, the threat of disintermediation can reverse this effect---the presence of the offline channel can make platform revenue strictly decrease in information quality, due to sellers' improved ability to screen risky buyers. Second, one might assume naively that the prospect of disintermediation would compel the platform to lower its commission rate. In some cases, however, it may be in the platform's interest to "double down" and increase its commission rate in response to users transacting offline. Third, although charging sellers upfront to access the platform is robust to disintermediation, this strategy can fall short of the revenue attainable under commissions. This suggests that upfront pricing alone cannot fully recoup revenue losses from disintermediation. Conventional wisdom suggests that an open and information-rich environment can boost on-platform transactions by fostering trust. Our work adds nuance to this view by showing how high information quality can hurt the platform by encouraging buyers and sellers to disintermediate, and in the process alter the platform's pricing strategy. A full version of this paper is available at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4378501