The goal of shared rides is to transport compatible riders together in a carpool-type service, thereby reducing vehicle miles and emissions. However, platforms such as Uber and Lyft have long struggled to maintain a healthy shared rides product. Low prices are needed to attract riders and achieve enough density for efficient matching, but are risky for platforms. We analyze this tension in status-quo pricing policies used by platforms, and propose a new pricing policy that encourages matches and improves efficiency. We study a dynamic stochastic pricing and matching model, where riders randomly arrive and request a ride based on prices quoted by the platform. Riders who make requests spend limited time on the platform waiting for a match with other riders, and the platform dynamically matches riders to maximize the long-run average profit. We consider various practical pricing policies. A static pricing policy quotes a single price to all riders with the same origin-destination pair. Because of the difficulty of computing an optimal static price, in practice, platforms employ a heuristic approach that we call iterative pricing. Our analysis reveals a critical drawback: the risk of not being able to match riders after quoting the price limits the platform's ability to lower prices and attract riders. Motivated by this drawback, we propose an alternative called match-based pricing which sets prices according to the matching outcome. Analysis on a single origin-destination setting reveals that match-based pricing can be altruistic, simultaneously lowering vehicle miles and reducing rider payments while still improving profits relative to the optimal static pricing policy. These theoretical results are validated on a large-scale simulation with hundreds of origin-destinations from Chicago ridesharing data. These benefits are especially pronounced under high-cost, low-demand settings, expanding access to shared rides where they have historically been most challenging. A full version of this paper can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4551405.