Digital publishers increasingly use advertising as a monetization strategy. At the core of ad-based monetization is behavioral ad targeting, which creates a sustainable revenue stream for publishers and keeps online content mostly free. However, behavioral ad targeting requires the collection and use of consumer-level data, which leads to privacy concerns among consumers. Although the main intent of privacy regulations is to safeguard consumer privacy, a consistent finding from past empirical research is that privacy regulation hurts digital publishers. Specifically, prior research suggests that the revenue loss due to privacy regulations is more pronounced for general interest (vs. specialized) publishers, who have greater uncertainty about their consumer types without consumer tracking. For example, in the absence of consumer tracking, a mainstream news website such as the New York Times - which attracts a highly heterogeneous pool of readers - has a harder time inferring consumer types and interests in order to show them relevant ads, compared to a niche, ideologically extreme website such as Infowars. The content-dependent impact of privacy regulation on media firms gives rise to an important question: does privacy regulation affect media firms' ideological positioning and content strategies? More specifically, what is the relationship between privacy and content polarization? To answer the above questions, we consider a model where media firms choose both their ideological positioning and advertising, while ideologically heterogeneous consumers select their preferred content based on both their ideology and idiosyncratic taste shocks. We compare two salient informational environments: (1) behavioral ad targeting, where perfect inference about consumers is allowed, and (2) contextual ad targeting, where consumer tracking is banned due to privacy regulations, and media firms can only make inference about consumer types based on their media choices. We show that, in both monopoly and duopoly contexts, privacy regulations that ban behavioral ad targeting incentivize media firms to shift toward more extreme and polarizing ideological positioning in order to draw better inferences about consumer types, even though the shift to more extreme ideological positions can hurt both demand and consumer welfare from content consumption. This incentive is stronger for media firms that generate lower quality content. Moreover, compared to the monopoly case, competition increases firms' inference motives and leads to more polarized content over a wider range of parameters due to an inferential complementarity effect arising from consumer self-selection. Our research uncovers a previously unexplored relationship between privacy and polarization: specifically, it goes against extensive media speculations and policy memos that cite hyper-personalization of online content and the lack of privacy regulation as a key contributor to the increased polarization over the past few decades. In our model, we provide new insights into this problem: it is the inability to personalize that leads firms to move to more extreme and polarizing ideological positioning to sharpen their inferences about their consumers. Put differently, in our paper, firms' polarizing strategies are motivated not by what firms know about consumers, but rather by what firms do not know and are trying to learn. Thus, privacy regulation can lead to higher content polarization compared to the case of perfect content personalization. A full version of this paper can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4641822