This paper revisits a long-standing question of the validity of the First-Order Approach (FOA) for Principal-Agent problems with moral hazard in the agent's hidden effort. The canonical formulation of the problem [Holmström, 1979] presents a technical challenge: the agent faces infinitely many incentive constraints. The standard approach has been to relax this set of constraints by replacing them with a local incentive constraint that requires the first-order derivative of the agent's utility at the chosen action to be zero. However, this relaxation results in a loss of optimality in general. To ensure the optimal solution to the relaxed problem remains optimal for the original problem, i.e., FOA is valid, the literature has derived various sufficient (exogenous) conditions, among which the Mirrlees-Rogerson Condition is the most widely used. Although this condition is justified for risk-averse agents, its applicability in scenarios of risk-neutral agents with limited liability has not been scrutinized. We demonstrate with an example that the Mirrlees-Rogerson Condition fails to guarantee the validity of FOV in such scenarios. Some studies have explored alternative approaches to evade FOA altogether. These methods include Grossman and Hart [1983] who restrict attention to finite output levels and thus a finite-dimensional contract space; and Poblete and Spulber [2012] who impose additional endogenous assumptions (e.g., monotonicity) on the optimal contract. Thus, the former cannot cover many practically relevant situations where the contract space is uncountable and the latter fails to ensure the global optimality of the solutions in a larger contract space without the imposed endogenous assumptions. We propose a new solution framework that tweaks (rather than avoids) the FOA without sacrificing optimality, namely, a less stringent notion that only requires FOA to be valid for Quota-Bonus contracts (FOAVQB). This proposal is rationalized by our finding that any feasible contract of the relaxed problem can be matched by a quota-bonus contract in terms of the principal's payoff. This desirable property does not extend to other simple contract forms commonly seen in practice, such as linear or debt contracts. We further identify exogenous sufficient conditions that justify FOAVQB, ensuring the optimality of quota-bonus contracts for the original problem. We show that these sufficient conditions are less demanding than the Mirrlees-Rogerson Condition and are flexible enough to accommodate common instances where the agent's expected utility is non-unimodal in effort (besides those with a unimodal utility function), contrasting the literature that typically justifies FOA by finding conditions to guarantee unimodality. Our paper thus fills an important gap in the literature on contract design under risk-neutrality and limited liability. A full version of this paper can be found at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4715135