The full paper is available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4788687. We consider the pricing problem of an advertising platform that charges a producer for disclosing hard evidence of product quality to a consumer before trading. In our model, a producer acquires hard evidence that reveals the quality of her product, for example, by winning awards, obtaining test certificates, and gathering product reviews/ratings. However, the producer cannot disclose the evidence to the consumer by herself, which may be due to the high costs involved either for the producer to attract consumer attention or for the consumer to verify the evidence by himself. The only way the producer can disclose is to purchase ad services offered by the platform. To profit from advertising, the platform designs a profile of menus, each containing various ad plans. Each plan consists of a (potentially interior) disclosure probability and a price. The platform can observe the evidence and offer exclusive ad plan menus to different producer types. Multiple equilibria arise since consumer beliefs and producer's contingent advertisement purchases are interdependent. Such strategic uncertainty is so severe that for any pricing policy that achieves close-to-optimal profit in the platform's favorite equilibrium, the pricing policy also induces a bad equilibrium where the profit is close to 0. To tackle strategic uncertainty, the platform designs a pricing policy to maximize its revenue guaranteed across all equilibria. We completely characterize the robust solution and highlight its two central characteristics: (i) The revelation principal fails, and the menu for each type contains a continuum of plans equivalent to a strictly convex price function, even though most plans are never chosen on the equilibrium path; (ii) The platform adopts a complete divide-and-conquer strategy by offering plans as if it always prioritizes guaranteeing disclosure probabilities from high types over low types. One can visualize the optimal solution through the following procedure: first, the platform offers a plan with a small disclosure probability at a sufficiently low price to bait the highest type producer to deviate from the hypothetical equilibrium where no type discloses. Then, it introduces a continuous sequence of similar bait plans. Each such bait plan lures the highest type out of the hypothetical equilibrium where she chooses the plan right before the bait plan in the sequence. Full disclosure hereby becomes the unique credible choice of the highest type. Next, this continuous baiting process repeats for the second highest type, but the hypothetical equilibria to be broken now take the highest type's full disclosure as granted. After this, the process continues sequentially for the other lower types, assuming all higher types' full disclosure is guaranteed. Full disclosure is hereby induced in the unique equilibrium. Moreover, the complete divide-and-conquer feature of our solution results in higher rents for higher producer types despite symmetric information between the platform and the producer. We also consider several extensions. First, we show that under the optimal menu profile, all types expect the lowest type choosing full disclosure is the unique rationalizable outcome, so our solution remains robustly optimal even if the platform worries that market participants may fail to play Nash equilibrium. Second, we show introducing randomness in the menus does not increase the platform's robust guarantee but it provides a simple implementation of our solution: the platform can achieve the same by offering only the option of full disclosure at a random price, which is always purchased on the equilibrium path. Third, we allow the platform to jointly design the menu profile and the information structure and show the optimal information structure is full-revealing. This extension extends the interpretation of our model beyond advertisement pricing to other applications, such as rating agencies.