How did the launch of Sputnik 1 affect NASA's process of developing an artificial Earth satellite? How do nuclear programs in countries attempting to acquire nuclear weapons compare to the Manhattan Project? Whether agencies attempt an original discovery or redicovery, they undergo a process of search in an unfamiliar environment. They converge upon successful designs through a process of trial and error. However, an agency attempting rediscovery searches with the comfort of knowing that the technology it hopes to reproduce is feasible. Meanwhile, the agency attempting an original discovery has no such guarantee. We study how simply knowing that something is discoverable affects the process of search in unfamiliar environments. Intuitively, the process of rediscovery seems simpler than original discovery, and we crystallize this idea. In our model, there is a continuum of choices between 0 and 1 that have unknown payoffs. A searcher can learn the payoff to any given choice at a cost. Each period she decides whether to continue searching, and if so, which choice to learn about next. She eventually stops to take the best choice she had discovered so far. Crucially, the searcher knows that there exists some choice which achieves a certain target payoff (e.g., that it is possible to design an invention of a given quality), but she does not know which. We interpret this as capturing rediscovery: the searcher knows with certainty that a good discovery is possible, but she does not know a priori where to find it. The searcher also knows that the mapping from options to payoffs is continuous with a known Lipschitz constant. This assumption ensures that the searcher's past discoveries guide where she looks next, as continuity implies that proximate choices yield similar payoffs. The searcher's utility upon concluding search is the payoff of her best discovery minus the sum of her accumulated search costs. We find an optimal search policy that is simple in many ways. First, the searcher follows a threshold stopping rule, meaning she stops if the payoff she discovers exceeds that period's threshold and continues otherwise. Next, search proceeds from left to right, even though the searcher's choice set includes strategies that are not unidirectional. The knowledge that good discoveries exist renders search into a process of elimination. Third, the searcher has perfect recall but never invokes it. She always selects the last option she had discovered rather than returning to a previous discovery she had made. Finally, while search happens in a non-stationary environment, the optimal search policy depends only on a simple index. Full paper at martinobanchio.github.io/files/SR.pdf