When A/B/n tests (aka megastudies) have covariates that describe individuals, they can potentially be used to design targeting policies, i.e., to achieve better outcomes by assigning optimal interventions for specific individuals rather than applying the same intervention to everyone. We applied five popular targeting approaches to two large-scale field experiments with many interventions aimed at increasing vaccination rates (the Walmart study of [Milkman et al., 2022]) and the Penn-Geisinger study of [Milkman et al., 2021] and [Patel et al., 2023]), and found limited value of targeting in the Walmart experiment and a four times higher value of targeting in the Penn-Geisinger experiment. Our research explains the difference in the gains from personalization between the two studies and shows that neither heterogeneity in responses nor independence across potential outcomes within individuals is sufficient to predict whether a targeting exercise will be successful. Instead, a specific form of heterogeneity, which we call "actionable" heterogeneity, determines the value of targeting. Namely, to be "actionable"' for targeting, heterogeneity that moderates the treatment effects within different subgroups is not sufficient. It also needs to have a few subgroups for which the most successful intervention is not the same. Visually, this appears as a crossover between one intervention and another, if the individuals are ranked by their treatment effects. We show that the magnitude of crossovers with the best-performing intervention determines what portion of heterogeneity is "actionable"' for targeting. The magnitude of the crossovers is determined by three forces. When within-treatment heterogeneity increases, we expect a higher value from targeting because the benefit of switching to a different treatment has a higher variance and therefore might be higher. However, when potential outcomes are correlated for an individual, the benefit of switching gets eroded. A third force that also lowers the value from targeting is high variance in average outcomes because every targeting policy needs to beat the best uniform treatment, the value of which increases with higher variance. Under some conditions, this force can countervail the effect of adding more treatments, resulting in an inverse U-shape relationship between the number of treatments and the value from targeting. For studies with many interventions, such as the ones we analyze, determining the magnitude of actionable heterogeneity can be challenging. To aid this task, we develop an empirical model that estimates the value of personalized policies compared to the best untargeted intervention. We find that the value of actionable heterogeneity of the Penn-Geisinger study is higher than that of the Walmart study, which can explain the difference in the observed values of targeting estimates. Our model also illustrates conditions when adding more treatments to an experiment may hurt the value from targeting. The full version of the paper is available at: https://anyashchetkina.github.io/actionable_heterogeneity.pdf.