This year marks the 20th OOPSLA/SPLASH Educators' and Trainers' Symposium. The past two decades have witnessed several stages of evolution of o-o in education. At first, efforts were directed at getting objects into the curriculum. During the second stage, in the latter half of the nineties, o-o moved from being an advanced subject to one that dominated introductory courses. Since then, the discipline has become more research oriented, with studies on how best to teach o-o. In the early years of the last decade, pair programming and "objects first" were hot topics. While pair programming has become routine, the past few years have seen a retreat from the concept of "objects first." In the past five or six years, a recurring theme has been the need to effectively manage large projects undertaken by students. At the same time, the importance of parallelism has become increasingly obvious. That realization led to the change in conference name last year, from one devoted to o-o in particular, to one more generally devoted to advances in programming technology and teaching programming.
 This year's symposium concentrates on programming teams and parallel programming. Kim Bruce talks on introducing parallelism and concurrency early in the curriculum. Rich LeBlanc gives a Curriculum 2013 steering committee report, along with an audience-participation exercise.
 From the perspective of teams, Deer Run Software will present their CATME/Team Maker application, a popular engineering-education tool for creating teams and assessing the effectiveness of team members. One of the contributed papers, from the Technical University of Eindhoven, our other contributed paper, from Thomas Van Drunen of Wheaton College, explores teaching functional programming in a discrete-math course. Several contributed posters will explore other issues in teaching and learning programming.
 Today's programming textbooks include more than just text. Add-ons like lecture slides, videos, and automated testing are becoming increasingly necessary for successful marketing. A panel of textbook authors will discuss ancillary resources for textbooks.