This year's conference received twelve submissions, of which eight were accepted, and one was extended to an additional half-day. The decision was based on criteria of relevance to the SIGIR community, core quality and experience of presenters. The accepted tutorials include three fullday tutorials, and two morning-afternoon sequences. It was important for us to build a diverse yet comprehensive program that would address the needs of all attendees from newcomers, eager to acquire critical knowledge, to experts curious about side or emerging areas of research in Information Retrieval. To this effect we made sure to cover a wide range of topics from fundamental ones ("Revisiting the Foundations of IR") to timely ones such as formal models ("Building and Using Models forInformation Seeking, Search and Retrieval"), the handling of verbose queries ("Information Retrieval with Verbose Queries"), or related to leveraging Wikipedia ("Exploiting Wikipedia for Information Retrieval Tasks".) We also decided to allow for non-mainstream topics in order to expand the horizons of Information Retrieval practitioners and researchers with a full-day tutorial on "Music Retrieval and Recommendation". In addition, we wanted to offer more flexibility to attendees in building their own personalized program as well as learning about timely topics. We thus included this year two morningafternoon sequence of half-day tutorials. One such sequence deals with click models, starting in the morning with "An Introduction to Click Models for Web Search", while the afternoon session dives deep into "Advanced Click Models and their Applications to IR". The other sequence covers the always-critical topic of IR evaluation, with a morning session dealing with "Designing an Endto- End Evaluation Pipeline", and an afternoon session tackling user behavior in "Modeling User Behavior for Measuring Effectiveness". Note that in order to offer more flexibility to attendees, the morning and afternoon sessions of these two tutorials are each considered as stand-alone tutorials and can be taken independently.