ICCAD continues to be the premier conference devoted to technical innovations in design automation. 
 
ICCAD's program of technical papers, tutorials, panels, and keynote highlights the most important current and future research challenges. A day of workshops on hot topics caps a week of non-stop technical excitement. And as always, a large number of side meetings and social events provide plenty of opportunities for networking and meeting colleagues and friends. 
 
This year's ICCAD starts on Monday, November 7 and continues through Wednesday, November 9. You will find up-to-date details on the conference website http://www.iccad.com. 
 
The core of ICCAD has always been the contributed research paper program. We received 349 worldwide submissions and the technical program committee, after careful deliberation, selected 106 excellent papers for presentation. These papers are split into 26 sessions over the three days of the technical program. In parallel with the technical program of submitted papers, ICCAD 2011 features a full track of invited, tutorial, and special sessions. These sessions, given by world experts, are an excellent opportunity for updating your knowledge in state-of-the-art and emerging areas. Two "Designer Perspective" sessions highlight contemporary needs and gaps in EDA tools. This year we resume the traditional ICCAD panel series, exploring future EDA trends on Monday evening, and continuing discussion of the impact of parallel computation on Wednesday afternoon. 
 
ICCAD continues to host one-day topical workshops providing focused coverage of topics of emerging and current interest. This year, four workshops, on lithography, variability modeling/characterization, constraints in formal verification and adaptive power management will take place on Thursday, November 10. This year's CANDE workshop will also be co-located with ICCAD in San Jose, and held in parallel with ICCAD workshops on Thursday, November 10. 
 
Finally, ICCAD 2011 is privileged to have a keynote address from Dr. Georg Sigl of Technische Univ. Munchen. Prof. Sigl will provide unique insights into the design of secure hardware systems, and ask what role EDA will play in the design of future secure systems.