We welcome you to the Sixth International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services, sponsored by ACM SIGMOBILE and USENIX, held in beautiful Breckenridge, Colorado June 17-20, 2008. We are grateful for the generous financial support provided to MobiSys 2008 by the National Science Foundation, Intel, Microsoft Research, Nokia, and IBM Research. We thank all of the faculty, staff, and students who have contributed to making MobiSys 2008 a success. In particular, we'd like to profusely thank our Program Committee Chairs Eyal de Lara and Carla Ellis and all the PC members, our local arrangements chair Mike Colagrosso, our workshops and tutorials chair Katie Siek, our posters and demonstrations chair Landon Cox, our publications chair Anmol Sheth, and our publicity chair Alex Varshavsky. In addition, we'd like to thank SIGMOBILE, our steering committee, and especially our steering committee chair Victor Bahl for all his advice and guidance during the preparations for MobiSys 2008. 
 
Mobile computing and communications have soared in popularity in recent years, and research interest has been intense and growing. With the advent of smartphone and wireless technology such as the iPhone and WiFi/WiMax, we have seen an explosion in innovation in mobile computing. The MobiSys conference captures this excitement by gathering a vibrant community of world-class researchers together to share cutting-edge ideas in mobile systems, applications, and services. 
 
We are excited to present the MobiSys 2008 program. The main conference program presents 22 sterling technical papers, a keynote speech by the renowned Roy Want of Intel, a panel discussion on key policy issues in mobile computing, and an invigorating session of 19 posters and demonstrations. In addition, we are pleased to present the Second International Workshop on Systems and Networking Support for Health Care and Assisted Living Environments (HealthNet), the first Workshop on Virtualization in Mobile Computing (MobiVirt), a tutorial on Thick Mobile Client Programming Technologies: Python for S60 and J2ME, a tutorial on Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks, and a PhD Forum. We effusively thank all the organizers of the workshops, tutorials and PhD Forum, including HealthNet's General Co-Chairs Gaetano Borriello and Chiara Petrioli and TPC Co-Chairs Maria Ebling and Robin Kravets, MobiVirt's organizers Ramon Caceres and Landon Cox, the Nokia thick client tutorial's instructors Rich Hankins and Vidya Setlur, the VANET tutorial's instructors Hannes Hartenstein and Ken Laberteaux, and the PhD Forum's organizers Arta Doci and Alan Marchiori.