The LinkKDD-2005 workshop aims to bring together a diverse group of researchers and industry practitioners to advance the state of the art in link discovery. Recently, there has been increasing interest in developing information technology for Link Discovery (LD). LD research studies and develops data mining techniques for extracting valuable patterns linking together seemingly unrelated items. LD, rooted in fields such as discreet mathematics, graph theory, social science, pattern analysis, link analysis and spatial databases, is relevant to a wide range of research topics that have been developed in past decades. Successful LD systems will discover the hidden structure of organizations, relate groups, identify fraudulent behaviour, model group activity and provide early detection of emerging threats. The broader context of this workshop invites both theoretical and applied contributions to LD spanning techniques from Data Mining, Machine Learning, Information Retrieval, Natural Language Processing, Social Networks Analysis, and general Graph Theory.Typical characteristics of link discovery problems are:.. Data is heterogeneous, arising from multiple sources;.. Data and patterns sought include representations of people, organizations, objects, actions and events, each of which has its own set of attributes, and particular types of relations linking them;.. The structure may include temporal, spatial, organizational, and/or transactional patterns;.. A relatively low number of observations for each entity can be recorded and the overall sample is typically small relative to the size of the population;.. The data becomes available over time, so the timing of when to make a decision based on the analysis is a central issue.LD problems are found in various areas such as homeland security, social network analysis, fraud detection, recommendation systems, and user modelling. The interdisciplinary nature of link discovery promotes a concerted effort from various researchers. The purpose of this workshop is to provide a forum to foster such interactions, discuss the new achievements and identify future research directions in link discovery.