Study of Buol's history is very limited, particularly with regard to the border territory and the exploitation of mines. If this fact persists continuously, there will be discontinuities information between the reality in the past with the present reality. The research aims to clarify the position of Buol as the border territory between Central Sulawesi and Gorontalo also the exploitation of mines in Buol during the reign of the Dutch East Indies. The methodology used is Anthony Giddens structuration, which states that the structure consists of several components, namely the agent, which can make changes to the structure when it undergoes agency. Through the creation of the agent which is sustained by power and capability also through the interaction process continually. It is concluded that Buol is the agent of structure that is applied predominantly by Gorontalo and the colonial regime. Reaction and enforcement role in elite and Buol's community failed against the external structure, so that the control of the colonial regime in political life and the economy getting stronger. By the strength of capital and power, gold and mineral wealth exploited and Buol was forced to enter to the new structure that created by the colonial government. This research seeks the explanation about Buol's position located on a north tip of Central Sulawesi geographically. This region has a direct border to Gorontalo, a social group and a kingdom under Buol's influence in the colonial era. Gorontalo's effort to intervene must be seen as a colonial "invisible hand" behind their cultural closeness, between Gorontalo and Buol. The intervention was aimed to control all gold mines there. It is unthinkable that Gorontalo's culture was a dominant character in economic and political dynamics of Buol. However, in Buol's history, Gorontalo had ever sent her high nobleman as king of Buol. Recently, there were three bwulyans who had a right of Buol's throne, namely: Bwulyan Pogogul, Bwulyan Kaili, and Bwulyan Mangindano. It is assumed that Gorontalo had a hegemonic power. This article is a result of research in the region of Buol Regency. To explain her historiography in a reconstruction context, a methodology is a necessary in guiding for factual analysis and making an objective conclusion. The methodology here is structuration of Anthony Giddens. Giddens expresses that a structure consists of some components called as agent. In a structural paradigm with the structure as a dominant component, Giddens says that an agent can make a change toward structure as agent experiences at dynamicization (agency). By its creativity, supported by power and capability, and through a continuous interaction process that, enabled by structure, agent changes a such structure and creates a new one (reproduction). (1) Buol was an agent in a structure dominated by Gorontalo and colonial hegemony. Gold mine was a power for Buol to strengthen her position. However, gold as a basic capital could not function well as Buol's elite or common people could not manage it and change it into a pillar for the new structure.