It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the third Workshop on Large-scale System and Application Performance -- LSAP2011. We initiated this workshop two years ago as we think it addresses a very important and timely subject. Over the last decade, computer systems and applications in everyday use have grown to unprecedented scales. Large clusters serving millions of search requests per day, grids executing large workflows and parameter sweeps consisting of thousands of jobs, and supercomputers running complex e-science applications, have now hundreds of thousands of processing cores. In addition, clouds are quickly emerging as a large-scale computing infrastructure. Peer-to-peer systems and centralized video distribution systems that dominate the internet and complicated internet applications such as massive multiplayer online games are used by millions of people every day. 
 
In view of this tremendous growth, understanding the performance of large-scale computer systems and applications has become vital to institutional, commercial, and private interests. This workshop intends to be a venue for papers on performance evaluation methods, tools, and studies focusing on the challenges of large scale, such as decentralization, predictable performance, reliability, and scalability. It aims to bring together system designers and researchers involved with the modeling and performance evaluation of largescale systems and applications. 
 
The call for papers of the workshop attracted 8 submissions, out of which the program committee accepted 5 papers that cover a variety of topics, ranging from lock thrashing in multicore systems and file systems for exascale computing, to the visual analysis of I/O system behavior, the multi-scale analysis of large distributed systems, and the analysis of social gaming networks. In addition, the workshop program features a keynote presentation by Marc Snir of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA, on performance engineering for petascale systems and beyond.