Modern memory systems use encryption and message authentication codes to ensure confidentiality and integrity. Encryption and integrity verification rely on cryptography calculations, which are slow. To hide the latency of cryptography calculations, prior works exploit the fact that many cryptography steps only require a memory block’s write counter (i.e., a value that increases whenever the block is written to memory), but not the block itself. As such, memory controller (MC) caches counters so that MC can start calculating before missing blocks arrive from memory.Irregular workloads suffer from high counter miss rates, however, just like they suffer from high miss rates of page table entries. Many prior works have looked at the problem of page table entry misses for irregular workloads, but not the problem of counter misses for the irregular workloads.This paper addresses the memory latency overheads that irregular workloads suffer due to their high counter miss rate. We observe many (e.g., unlimited number of) counters can have the same value. As such, we propose memoizing cryptography calculations for hot counter values. When a counter arrives from memory, MC can use the counter value to look up a memoization table to quickly obtain the counter’s memoized results instead of slowly recalculating them. To maximize memoization table hit rate, we observe whenever writing a block to memory, increasing its counter to any value higher than the current counter value can satisfy the security requirement of always using different counter values to encrypt the same block. As such, we also propose a memoization-aware counter update: when writing a block to memory, increase its counter to a value whose cryptography calculation is currently memoized. We refer to memoizing the calculation results of counters and the corresponding memoization-aware counter update collectively as Self-Reinforcing Memoization for Cryptography Calculations (RMCC). Our evaluations show that RMCC improves average performance by 6% compared to the state-of-the-art. On average across the lifetimes of different workloads, RMCC accelerates decryption and verification for 92% of counter misses.