Leaking memory access addresses can significantly empower an adversary in several computing usage scenarios – from key extraction to disclosing private information. Oblivious RAM has been proposed as a solution to this problem. Oblivious RAM involves reading multiple blocks instead of a single block for each memory access and changing the address of the data block being read after each access. State-of-the-art ORAMs (PathORAM and RingORAM) consider a tree-based structure for storing the data. However, ORAM designs pay a performance penalty. One reason is the strict requirement to evict stash blocks on a particular path that was previously read from. In treebased ORAMs, each memory block is assigned a random path number, and when accessing a single block, one must fetch all the blocks in that path. Once the path is fetched into a client, the computation on the block is performed and that block is assigned a new random path number. All the blocks that were fetched into the client should be evicted to the memory. However, the eviction process must place the unmodified blocks on the same path that the prior read has fetched data from. This eviction requirement may cause a block not to be placed back in the ORAM tree due to limited space on a given tree node. As a result, the client must temporarily hold the block in its stash, which is a secure storage. Every fetch request for a block must search the stash before issuing a request to the ORAM. As the stash size grows, the stash search process becomes a substantial latency hurdle. On the other hand, if the stash is small then the client has to issue dummy reads which are useless reads in the tree for the sole purpose of creating more opportunities to place the stash data back in the tree. An alternate approach used in prior works is to embed dummy data blocks to create large bucket sizes at each tree level to enable better stash eviction probability. Neither of the above two solutions is palatable in practice. Dummy reads increase memory access latency, while dummy blocks increase the fetch bandwidth to bring large buckets from each level into the stash. Furthermore, dummy blocks also decrease the effective memory size available.To solve this problem we propose PageORAM, a novel block eviction and placement strategy. PageORAM makes the critical observation that DRAM is accessed at the granularity of a page (also referred to as row buffer), which is at least an order magnitude larger than the tree node size. Thus, a page may hold data blocks from multiple sub-trees. Hence, when fetching a path, PageORAM fetches a few additional sub-paths from the tree that are already present in an open DRAM page. These additional fetches vastly increase stash eviction options by opening up exponentially more data block placement choices. Thus, PageORAM enables a dramatic reduction in stash size without increasing page access counts in DRAM. While this observation may be counter-intuitive, we note that PageORAM reduces the overall bandwidth even after accounting for the increased fetches along the sub-paths. The reason is that by vastly improving stash block placement possibilities, PageORAM can significantly reduce the bucket size of the tree. Our implementation of PageORAM demonstrates an order of magnitude slower stash growth, increased bucket occupancy with useful data, and correspondingly improved memory access latency and reduced memory bandwidth. In our experiments, we find that PageORAM can either reduce the memory space requirement of the tree-based ORAMs by up to 40% compared to baseline tree-based ORAM or give a performance improvement of up to 7.8x for the same structured tree-based ORAM.