We present a novel method for populating 3D indoor scenes with virtual humans that can navigate in the environment and interact with objects in a realistic manner. Existing approaches rely on high-quality training sequences that contain captured human motions and the 3D scenes they interact with. However, such interaction data are costly, difficult to capture, and can hardly cover the full range of plausible human-scene interactions in complex indoor environments. To address these challenges, we propose a reinforcement learning-based approach that enables virtual humans to navigate in 3D scenes and interact with objects realistically and autonomously, driven by learned motion control policies. The motion control policies employ latent motion action spaces, which correspond to realistic motion primitives and are learned from large-scale motion capture data using a powerful generative motion model. For navigation in a 3D environment, we propose a scene-aware policy with novel state and reward designs for collision avoidance. Combined with navigation mesh-based path-finding algorithms to generate intermediate waypoints, our approach enables the synthesis of diverse human motions navigating in 3D indoor scenes and avoiding obstacles. To generate fine-grained human-object interactions, we carefully curate interaction goal guidance using a marker-based body representation and leverage features based on the signed distance field (SDF) to encode human-scene proximity relations. Our method can synthesize realistic and diverse human-object interactions (e.g., sitting on a chair and then getting up) even for out-of-distribution test scenarios with different object shapes, orientations, starting body positions, and poses. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art human-scene interaction synthesis methods in terms of both motion naturalness and diversity. Code, models, and demonstrative video results are available at: https://zkf1997.github.io/DIMOS.