Multi-agent dynamical systems refer to scenarios where multiple units (aka agents) interact with each other and evolve collectively over time. For instance, people's health conditions are mutually influenced. Receiving vaccinations not only strengthens the long-term health status of one unit but also provides protection for those in their immediate surroundings. To make informed decisions in multi-agent dynamical systems, such as determining the optimal vaccine distribution plan, it is essential for decision-makers to estimate the continuous-time counterfactual outcomes. However, existing studies of causal inference over time rely on the assumption that units are mutually independent, which is not valid for multi-agent dynamical systems. In this paper, we aim to bridge this gap and study how to estimate counterfactual outcomes in multi-agent dynamical systems. Causal inference in a multi-agent dynamical system has unique challenges: 1) Confounders are time-varying and are present in both individual unit covariates and those of other units; 2) Units are affected by not only their own but also others' treatments; 3) The treatments are naturally dynamic, such as receiving vaccines and boosters in a seasonal manner. To this end, we model a multi-agent dynamical system as a graph and propose a novel model called CF-GODE (C ounterFactual Graph Ordinary Differential Equations). CF-GODE is a causal model that estimates continuous-time counterfactual outcomes in the presence of inter-dependencies between units. To facilitate continuous-time estimation, we propose Treatment-Induced GraphODE, a novel ordinary differential equation based on graph neural networks (GNNs), which can incorporate dynamical treatments as additional inputs to predict potential outcomes over time. To remove confounding bias, we propose two domain adversarial learning based objectives that learn balanced continuous representation trajectories, which are not predictive of treatments and interference. We further provide theoretical justification to prove their effectiveness. Experiments on two semi-synthetic datasets confirm that CF-GODE outperforms baselines on counterfactual estimation. We also provide extensive analyses to understand how our model works.