Fine-grained population distribution data is of great importance for many applications, e.g., urban planning, traffic scheduling, epidemic modeling, and risk control. However, due to the limitations of data collection, including infrastructure density, user privacy, and business security, such fine-grained data is hard to collect and usually, only coarse-grained data is available. Thus, obtaining fine-grained population distribution from coarse-grained distribution becomes an important problem. To tackle this problem, existing methods mainly rely on sufficient fine-grained ground truth for training, which is not often available for the majority of cities. That limits the applications of these methods and brings the necessity to transfer knowledge between data-sufficient source cities to data-scarce target cities. In knowledge transfer scenario, we employ single reference fine-grained ground truth in target city, which is easy to obtain via remote sensing or questionnaire, as the ground truth to inform the large-scale urban structure and support the knowledge transfer in target city. By this approach, we transform the fine-grained population mapping problem into a one-shot transfer learning problem. In this paper, we propose a novel one-shot transfer learning framework PSRNet to transfer spatial-temporal knowledge across cities from three views. From the view of network structure, we build a dense connection-based population mapping network with temporal feature enhancement to capture the complicated spatial-temporal correlation between population distributions of different granularities. From the view of data, we design a generative model to synthesize fine-grained population samples with POI distribution and the single fine-grained ground truth in data-scarce target city. From the view of optimization, after combining above structure and data, we propose a pixel-level adversarial domain adaption mechanism for universal feature extraction and knowledge transfer during training with scarce ground truth for supervision. Experiments on real-life datasets of 4 cities demonstrate that PSRNet has significant advantages over 8 state-of-the-art baselines by reducing RMSE and MAE by more than 25%. Our code and datasets are released in Github (https://github.com/erzhuoshao/PSRNet-CIKM).