We formalize a mathematical approach to probabilistic logic for zero-order logic and derive new inequalities that are necessary and sufficient for consistent probability assignments to propositions. We prove that a complete theory of probabilistic logic requires the a priori assignment of probabilities for a system with k basic propositions. We also show that a proposal due to Cheeseman, namely, to regard measures of confidence in knowledge systems as expectations that are conditioned on unknown distributions, does not work in general. We demonstrate this by showing that several certainty measures proposed for expert systems are not consistent with the derived inequalities for probabilistic logics. A common practice in machine reasoning systems is the assignment of a measure of plausibility to any statement. Several such assignments exist and have been the subject of Pearl 1985) have proposed probability theory, based on a classical Bayesian approach, for the basis of a formal theory of plausibility assignment for knowledge systems. (For surveys of other systems of assignment, see (Freedman 1986; Prade 1985; and Reseller 1964). Part of the problem of deriving consistent and complete probability assignments to statements concerns the formalization of the statistical dependencies between statements. Another problem concerns the definition of the correct sample space for statements. Recently, (Nilsson 1986) has defined a sample space for propositions that results in a fundamental method of assignment, called probabilistic logic. Probabilistic logic is based on classical probability theory, with the standard operators for negation, conjunction, disjunction, and implication. Notation for these operators are given in PROLOG notation as: Let L be a set of propositions At. A probability function on L (a probabilistic logic function) is a map that is subject to two rules: Rl. If A is a tautology, then | R2. If not(A,B) is a tautology, then A classical probability theory is a triple. .. .) of a sample space S, a Boolean algebra of Borel sets and a measure. defined for Since we are concerned here with a discrete sample space, the probability theory is given by a "probability" P that is defined on all subsets of S that satisfies In order to justify the use of a probability theory in logic, one must show that conditions (1) and (2) imply that p has an interpretation as a classical probability on a relevant sample space. The correct sample space recently defined by (Nilsson 1986) is given by the following: Definition: The …