The Human Brain Project, one of two European flagship projects, is a collaborative effort to reconstruct the brain, piece by piece, in multi-scale models and their supercomputer-based simulation, integrating and federating giant amounts of existing information and creating new information and knowledge about the human brain. A fundamental impact on our understanding of the human brain and its diseases as well as on novel brain-inspired computing technologies is expected.
 The HPC Platform will be one of the central elements of the project. Including major European supercomputing centres and several universities, its mission is to build, integrate and operate the hardware, network and software components of the supercomputing and big data infrastructures from the cell to full-scale interactive brain simulations, with data management, processing and visualization.
 In my contribution, I will discuss the requirements of the HBP on HPC hardware and software technology. These requirements follow the multi-scale approach of the HBP to decode the brain and recreate it virtually. On the cellular level, hardware-software architectures for quantum mechanical ab-initio molecular dynamics methods and for classical molecular dynamics methods will be included in the platform. On the level of the full-scale brain simulation, on the one hand, a development system to "build" the brain by integration of all accessible data distributed worldwide as well as for tests and evaluation of the brain software is foreseen, and, on the other hand, a system that acts as the central brain simulation facility, eventually allowing for interactive simulation and visualization of the entire human brain. Additionally, the brain needs to be equipped with the proper sensory environment, a body, provided by virtual robotics codes developed on a suitable hardware system. It is expected that the human brain project can trigger innovative solutions for future exascale architectures permitting hierarchical memory structures and interactive operation.