One area of computer science that is not adequately addressed in most curricula is the area of data communications and computer networks. In most cases, there are no laboratory facilities to supprt this type of course. This paper reports on one approach to establishing a low cost laboratory to be used to support an undergraduate course in data communications and computer networks. The intent is to provide an inexpensive laboratory devoted to providing computer science and computer engineering students with exposure to the hardware and software components of data communications and computer networks. The laboratory equipment consists of ten IBM compatible microcomputers specitlcally equipped so as to provide the capability to rapidly reconfigure the computers into a variety of telecommunications topologies. A series of experiments has been developed with the goal of giving the student hands-on experience with data communications techniques. In these experiments, the students develop an understanding of data communications hardware and write several data communications software routines. 1.0 Introduction end History In most curricula, the concepts of data communications are either covered as part of another course or are taught in a survey course, with no laboratory component. Students are offered little hands-on experience with the practices and procedures used in data communications systems. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Machinary. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requiras a fee and/or specific permission. e 1991 ACM 0-89791-377-9/91 10002-0273 . ..S1 .50 2 Until recently, thk was the situation that existed at Mississippi State University. Data communications concepts were spread throughout several undergraduate and graduate level courses. A graduate course dedicated to data communications was begun in the fall of 1987, but there were no laboratory facilities to support the course. Due to this perceived deficiency, a project was initiated in 1987 to develop a laboratory to support a proposed undergraduate course in data communications and networks. Between 1987 and 1989, the specifics of the laboratory requirements for such a laboratory were developed along with a basic outline of the laboratory exercises that would be used in the course. As the plans for the laboratory were being developed, a proposal was submitted to the National Science Foundation for a matching grant under the Instrumentation and Laboratory Improvement (ILI) program. ‘fMs grant was approved in March of 1989, and the laboratory equipment was installed in the fall of 1989. 2.0 The Philosophy Behind The Laboratory The major goal of the project was to establish an undergraduate course in data communications and to develop an undergraduate data communications laboratory to support classroom instruction in thk area. The overriding consideration in structuring the laboratory was to provide the students with exposure to data communications in more depth than just at the user level. The experiments and laboratory equipment were aimed at prepming the student to assume a role in computer data communications systems design and implementation. Because of the need for this designer level interaction with the network, the idea of using a laboratory equipped with an off-the-shelf network was rejected early in the design phase. It was felt that a laboratory of this type would mask the features of data communications that the course is trying to address. It was also decided that the laboratory experiments should be built on previous course experiences and should not require the learning of a new computer language. Since all computer science, computer engineering, and electrical engineering students at Mississippi State take a course in