Computer systems frequently display a lack of flexibility and common sense a deficiency which has been noted in the popular mythology of humorous 'computer stories'. Surely research should be directed towards overcoming this basic failing? A system should be usable by ordinary people, without their requiring a lengthy training or familiarisation period. Other pieces of everyday technology telephones, televisions, cameras, motor-cars have succeeded in this respect. The condition is a hard one for computer systems to meet without losing flexibility, as it implies an ability to converse in either a natural language or a powerful yet simple formal language. Present-day practical systems have tended to attempt the latter. Query by Example (Zloof, 1977) and Prestel (Viewdata) are two outstanding rival contenders. Query by Example has the greater power but requires greater expertise from the user, who must master the fundamentals of the relational calculus. In addition, he must somehow know the names and meanings of the files and of the fields in each file. In any practical system there may be a great number of these, and getting the system to present the right names (or getting the user to remember them) may be difficult. Viewdata is simpler, but simplicity is gained at the cost of flexibility. Information is presented in a tree structure; dialogue is computer-driven with the use of 'menus' which are presented to the user. Successful interaction depends totally on the user's understanding the restricted vocabulary presented in the menus and adapting his interactions to use it exclusively. Nonetheless, the system does appear to have broken the barrier to usage by the 'man in the street'. The 'natural-language' systems present a better interface but so far have to be specifically tuned for each application area (Waltz, 1979). It seems to us that a better 'standard interface' is needed. Databases must do some of the necessary adaptation if information systems are to be linked up on a world-wide basis, and many of the 'users' are to be other computers not human beings. Such systems ought to be multilingual, able to retrieve immediately in one language what has just been inserted in another. Semantic