Sensor nodes have inherently limited energy. To increase network lifetime, most existing protocols for sensor networks are designed to achieve maximum energy-efficiency, without considering the presence of jamming attacks. This omission leads to significant assymetry of cost. Essentially, a jammer can waste significant energy of the sensors while spending only little energy of its own [3], enabling jammers with even limited energy to launch successful attacks against a wireless sensor network. In this demo, we consider an attacker and several senders, each with limited energy and the same power limitations, and show how to make jamming less effective. Current solutions to defend WSNs against such cheap jammers (e.g., channel surfing [2], randomized SFDs [1]) are all based on hiding an ongoing packet transmission from reactive jammers that only jam when they think or know there is an active data transmission. However, these solutions require tight syncrhonization between each sender-receiver pair to ensure successful data delivery. Moreover, these solutions provide no defense against cheap jamming when the packets are detected. In response, instead of trying to outsmart the jammer, we take a different approach that attacks the jammer and makes jamming more expensive. We propose Jam-Buster – a low overhead jam-resistant framework that improves the resilience of WSN communication to jamming by making jamming more expensive. Due to Multi-block Payload Packets, the jammer incurs more transmission cost to jam a packet. The Random Wakeups force the jammer to pay more idle listening cost to detect an ongoing transmission since the jammer can no longer predict future data transmission times using statistical analysis. Multi-block payload packet enables the receiver to recover uninterfered data bytes from partially jammed packets. The sender divides the data into k blocks and calculates the CRC for each block. The sender then packs the k blocks along with the k CRCs inside the packet payload. This enables the receiver to verify each block independently for interference and limits the jammer’s effectiveness to only those blocks with which the jamming signal overlaps. The challenge here is to identify the optimal k. As the sender increases k, the receiver can achieve more fine-grained recovery from the jamming signal. However, more blocks increase the total CRC