During Internet streaming, a significant portion of the battery power is always consumed by the display panel on mobile devices. To reduce the display power consumption, backlight scaling, a scheme that intelligently dims the backlight has been proposed. To maintain perceived video appearance in backlight scaling, a computationally intensive luminance compensation process is required. However, this step, if performed by the CPU as existing schemes suggest, could easily offset the power savings gained from backlight scaling. Furthermore, computing the optimal backlight scaling values requires per-frame luminance information, which is typically too energy intensive for mobile devices to compute. Thus, existing schemes require such information to be available in advance. And such an offline approach makes these schemes impractical. To address these challenges, in this paper, we design and implement GoCAD, a GPU-assisted Online Content-Adaptive Display power saving scheme for mobile devices in Internet streaming sessions. In GoCAD, we employ the mobile device's GPU rather than the CPU to reduce power consumption during the luminance compensation phase. Furthermore, we compute the optimal backlight scaling values for small batches of video frames in an online fashion using a dynamic programming algorithm. Lastly, we make novel use of the widely available video storyboard, a pre-computed set of thumbnails associated with a video, to intelligently decide whether or not to apply our backlight scaling scheme for a given video. For example, when the GPU power consumption would offset the savings from dimming the backlight, no backlight scaling is conducted. To evaluate the performance of GoCAD, we implement a prototype within an Android application and use a Monsoon power monitor to measure the real power consumption. Experiments are conducted on more than 460 randomly selected YouTube videos. Results show that GoCAD can effectively produce power savings without affecting rendered video quality.