Complementary approaches are used to improve information retrieval efficiency. One approach consists in focusing on the system inner processes used (e.g. document indexing, query-document similarity computing). Another approach can be to improve the user-system interaction [7]. Positive and negative relevance feedback type mechanism is among the most used and lots of studies have shown its efficiency. Classification is also used: grouping together documents according to their similarity and using those classes when consulting or querying the collection. When proposing an interactive process, powerful interfaces are needed. INQUERY [l] proposes a graphical view of the retrieved documents where similar documents are graphically close; the retrieved documents are listed to the user according to the class they belong to. VIBE [G] represents the information in a two dimensional space (document vs term) so that it is possible to graphically see which are the possible relevant documents according to some selected terms. Some complementary studies have shown that it is efficient to use the document structure or the factual information extracted from a document. ENVISION [5] represents the retrieved documents into two-dimensional tables. Rows and columns represent either factual information such as authors, date, or estimated relevance and cells are filled with document references, navigation through those tables is possible. In this poster we propose an interactive document visualization tool. It takes into account the fact that document relevance depends on the document features which are considered (information content, publication date, author affiliation, . ..). Those elements are crossed in order to discover the strong links that exist between them. Discovered relationships are then displayed on a 4-dimensional graphical view. This interface allows the user to graphically select the elements he is most interested in and to automatically construct new filters that will change interactively the set of the displayed documents.