The Education, Outreach, and Training Partnerships for Advanced Computational Infrastructure (EOT PACI) Program funded by the National Science Foundation, has launched a new Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) PACI Program. The REU PACI Program was awarded by the National Science Foundation in its Supplemental REU Program for the PACI programs: the National Computational Science Alliance (NCSA) and the National Partnership for Advanced Computational Infrastructure (NPACI). Through this program, undergraduate students will be working on projects which span research, development and education teams within the national PACI Program. The students will submit papers on their research experiences to the REU PACI Program Committee for selection of the panel at SC'98. Four of the best papers will be selected for discussion in this panel on how the PACI program has impacted the research opportunities for undergraduate students.The objective of the PACI REU program is to engage a diversified pool of talented undergraduate students in computational science research with PACI partners. A special emphasis of this program is to involve women, minorities and people with disabilities. Each student will be associated with a research group at one of the PACI institutions, which span the US. These research groups are involved in leading-edge research in fields of science (biology, chemical engineering, cosmology, etc.) and enabling technologies (visualization, next-generation networks, computer science, etc.) or education. Undergraduates at the various institutions will interact with the rest of the team members who are working on their project at other major institutions. Through the team interactions, students have a larger peer group of colleagues at the same stage of development and will experience modern interdisciplinary research directly. As one of the team-building experiences, many of these students are participating in Supercomputing '98. More information on the REU program can be found at: http://www.krellinst.org/neot/reu/.