Welcome to Reno and the Thirty-fourth Annual Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education! Over the years, SIGCSE Symposia have become known for their level of energy, excitement, diversity, and collegiality; and your participation contributes to the richness of this event. Thank you so much for coming and sharing!A particular welcome goes to newcomers! In addition to attending the exciting range of papers, panels, special sessions, and other activities, I encourage you to introduce yourselves to those you meet (at the reception, during a lunch or break, in a nearby seat during a session, etc.). SIGCSE is often described as an extended family, and conference attendees want to get to know you.And welcome back to past attendees! As you renew old friendships, remember also to greet our newcomers. With so many activities packed into a short time, first-timers and students may appreciate your helpful guidance to work through their many exciting options.A conference the size of SIGCSE 2003 occurs only through the efforts of a very large number of people. Thanks to all those who contributed session proposals and paper submissions, those involved in reviewing, and those on the SIGCSE 2003 Committee. Special thanks to Symposium Chair, Scott Grissom, and Program Co-chairs, Daniel Joyce and Deborah Knox, for their wonderful leadership and efforts in putting all of the pieces together. Also, particular thanks to Robert Beck, Symposium Site Coordinator, who since 1997 has continued to work with ACM in identifying potential locations for SIGCSE symposia and monitoring the many details of contracting.While this annual Symposium is the largest SIGCSE conference, SIGCSE also is actively involved in several others each year. Our next SIGCSE-sponsored conference is the Eighth Annual Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education (ITiCSE 2003), to be held June 30-July 2, 2003 at the University of Macedonia, Thessaloniki, Greece. Other cooperating conferences are listed though a link from the "conferences" section of www.sigcse.org.