Introduction A problem that is currently of some interest in connection with the development of conversational systems is that of dealing with the context m which the individual utterances of a dialog are embedded. have pointed out, the plans of the speakers are a crucial element of the context of a dialog. Knowledge of how speakers communicate intentions via their utterances seems, then, to be important to the success of a conversational system. This problem has been addressed by workers in disciplines other than Artificial Intelligence. Iftc encoding of speaker intention in single utterances has been studied by Searle (Searle(1975)) in his work on 'speech acts'. Communication of speaker intention via larger discourse units has been studied by the linguists Sinclair and Coulthard (Sinclair and Coulthard(1975)) in their work on the structure of pedagogical dialogs. Our effort involved applying the work of Searle and that of Sinclair and Coulthard to the problem of understanding the speaker intention communicated in utterances of actual dialogs from a simple domain. The Dialog Model We developed and tested a model for about one hundred dialogs which we recorded between passengers and a clerk at an information booth in a train station. By inspection of the dialoq transcripts, wc discovered a small set of discourse 'acts', each of which indicates a well-defined speaker intention. For instance, one such act, called an 'ack.heard.ok', indicates that the speaker believes he correctly heard the immediately preceding utterance. Tn general, the definition of an act may involve preceding utterances, and may express expectations about the acts to follow. We describe these interrelationships in terms of higher-level discourse units, called 'moves', which are themselves interrelated and described in terms of each other. Many of these moves consist in the speaker uttering an act and then listening for a response, to determine whether the act in fact achieved the purpose for which it was intended. Our description, then, leans strongly to the view, suggested especially by the work of Pruce, that the structures we observe in our dialogs result from the structures of the interacting plans of the participants in those dialogs. Utterances are intended either to further the speaker's own plan or to provide feedback to the other participant on the status of his (inferred) plan.