The cursive written text is still representing a challenge for researchers. Latin and Chinese Optical Character Recognition systems (OCR) have been studied extensively in the literature. Yet little work was performed for Arabic character recognition. Powerful and stable text segmentation is still needed. In this paper, a segmentation technique which is capable of processing vowelized Arabic text is introduced. Such a technique is size and font independent. Moreover, it does not require the detection of the centerline. It can also process typeset text. This technique can segment the cursive written text line even vthe line suffers from skewness. HNTRODUCTION One of the most important characteristics of the Arabic text, written on a horizontal line, is that characters are connected together by a connection line called "centerline" as shown in fig. 1. Most of the previous and existing techniques [l-61 depend heavily on the detection of this line. As by deleting this centerline, the primitives forming the cursive text will be separated. Existing segmentation techniques for cursive written text are font and size dependent. The segmentation techniques differ according to whether the font is typewritten, typesetting or handwritten. However, a new technique is presented in this paper that does not require the detection of the centerline. Evermore, it is size and font independent. This technique can segment the cursive written text line even if the line suffers from skewness. ILARABIC TEXT SEGMENTATION Due to its cursive nature, the Arabic text needs to be segmented before the recognition , phase in most Arabic OCR. This segmentation needs to be accurate and stable for different sizes and fonts. Any error in segmentation will propagate in the recognition phase. Some research in the Arabic text segmentation used thresholding of the word histogram to detect and eliminate the connection part between two consecutive characters [7, 81. Other [9, 101 used thresholding on the word outer contour rather than the histogram. However the use of thresholding in text segmentation needs a-priori information about the average size of the character in the page in order to determine a threshold value. This will not work for Omni size character recognition where different character sizes may exist on the same text line. Also it is found [4] that at the connection part between the characters have different widths for different Arabic fonts. In the following subsections some details about such techniques will be given. A. Second Moment Segmentation Technique The first step in this technique is to detect and isolate the different lines in a given text. Once the line is isolated, a moment histogram is generated. By choosing the right threshold, the histogram is partitioned into segments. In the case of Arabic written text, the resulting segments correspond to the primitives in the Arabic word. Calculation of the Centerline Consider a region that includes text only, the centerline is normally the row that contains the maximum number of black pixels as shown in fig.2. However, the row containing the maximum number of black pixels does not always correspond to the centerline especially if the line is skewed. The second moment histogram Generally, the centerline divides the Arabic word into two parts. The second moment of each pixel above or below the centerline is computed as shown in fig.3. The Segmentation Threshold The segmentation of the Arabic word using the second moment histogram depends on choosing the right threshold. Generally, it is not possible to choose a fixed threshold to segment all Arabic words because it is font and size dependent. Figure 3 shows an example of a word with different sizes and the corresponding second moment histogram. Figure 4 shows another example of three words of different fonts and again the difference in the threshold is clear. B. Contour Segmentation Technique The Contour segmentation algorithm [4] starts with word contour tracing:Figure 5 shows an Arabic word after the elimination of all internal black pixels. It also shows that the connection lines are formed of only two lines (i.e. the columns of the connection line will be formed of only two pixels). However, other columns inside the primitives and 0-7803-8575-6/04/$20.00 02004 IEEE 412 not part of the connection line may contain only two pixels after the elimination of internal pixels. This problem of detecting only columns having two pixels and belonging to the connection line is considered in the sequel. The contour tracing operation leaves the connection line columns with only two pixels. Then it is required to remove this part. To achieve that, the thickness of the text line is divided into three regions as shown in fig. 6. The height of each region depends on the size of the font. The connection parts in the text should lye in the middle region, and hence any column containing two pixels outside this region is not removed. The second moment technique suffers from the fact that it needs pre-information about the font size and type. The threshold value should be adjusted to cope with the size and type of the text to be segmented. Otherwise, it requires a trial-and-error procedure to find the suitable threshold. This technique will also fail when considering different font types and sizes on the same line and also if the line is skewed. Furthermore, the contour segmentation technique suffers from dependence on the detection of the centerline. Moreover, it needs special enhancement to handle vowelized text. These factors justifi the need for another segmentation technique that is type and size independent (i.e. Omni) and is independent of the centerline. Such a technique is described in the next section. 1II.The Centerline Independent Technique The new technique is based on the detection of upwards spikes present in the written text. It is composed of scanning each line from right to left and segmenting each line into isolated regions while giving each region an index as shown in fig 7. In the Arabic cursive text, the developed regions can be clustered into four types: *Isolated Characters, *Isolated Diacritics and Hamza, *Isolated vowelization marks, *Isolated Sub words (a whole word o a part of it). A specific filter is applied during the scanning to detect the upwards spikes in the sub words results into further dividing these sub words into primitives. Each primitive will be given a different index as shown in fig. 7 and fig. 8. IV.CONCLUSIONS In this work, a new segmentation technique was presented. It does not depend on the centerline detection. Preliminary experiments showed promising results when processing either vowelized Arabic or typeset text (as shown in fig Band 10). This technique is able to segment text lines' into the corresponding primitives independently from the text font and size. It works even if more that one character set is present in the text line and can also tolerate line skewness. Figure 11 shows promising results when applied to handwritten Arabic text. The work incorporated in this paper, can be integrated within different recognition techniques either using group classification [ 1 11, neutral network [ 121, HMM [13] or any other recognition system to build a complete Arabic OCR.' V . REFERENCE S [ I ] S. Mori, C. Y. Suen, and K. Yamamoto, "Historical review of ocr research and development," Proceedings of the IEEE 80(7), pp. 1029-1058, 1992. [2] A. Amin, "Off-line arabic character recognition: The state of the art," Pattern Recognition 31(5), pp. 517530, 1998. [3] S. M. Yamany, "A complete analysis of an arabic text reader," Master's thesis, Systems and Biomedical Dept., Faculty of Eng., Cairo Univ., Egypt, Mar 1995. [4] M. A. Hashsish, A. R. El-Bialy, A. H. Kandil, and S. M. Yamany, "A novel segmentation technique for cursive written text," Proc. AI-Azhar Eng. 4th Int. Conf 1995. [5] M. A. Hashsish, A. R. El-Bialy, A. H. Kandil, and S. M. Yamany, "Topological features: Towards an omni arabic text reader," Proc. AI-Azhar Eng. 5th Int. Conf 1997. [6] H. Abdelazim and M. A. Hashish, "Arabic reading machine," Proc. 10th National Computer Conf. , pp. 733740, 1988. Riyad, Saudi Arabia. [7] H. Abdelazim and M. A. Hashish, "Automatic recognition of arabic text," 10th Image/ITL conf. in IBM Toronto Lab. , 1987. Canada. [8] A. Amin and S. AI-Fedaghi, "Machine recognition of printed arabic text utilizing a natural language morphology," Int. J.-ManMachine Stud 35, pp. 769-788, 1991. [9] T. El-Sheikh and R. Guindi, "Computer recognition of arabic cursive script," Pattern Recognition 21, pp. 293-302, 1988. [IO] V. Margner, "Sarat-a system for the recognition of Arabic printed text," Proc. 11th Int. Conf on Pattern Recognition , pp. 561-564, 1992. [ I 11 A. El-Bialy, A. H. Kandil, M. Hashish and S. Yamany "Arabic OCR: Twoard A Complete System," Document Recognition and Retrieval W, SPIE Vol. 3967, pp 42-51, Jan. 2000 [12] A. Amin and H. AI-Sadoun, "Handprinted arabic character recognition system using an artificial neural network," Pattern Recognition 29, pp. 663-675, 1996. [I31 L. Zhidong, I. Bazzi, A. Kornai, J. Makhoul, P. Natarajan and R. Schwartz "A Robust, Language Independent OCR," AIPR 98, SPIE Vol. 33584, pp 96-104, Oct. 1998.