Parallel computers are becoming increasingly important for scientists and engineers in a wide range of disciplines. However, most undergraduate students rarely have the opportunity to program a parallel computer. Furthermore, the field of parallel computers is rapidly developing, yet most classes on programming parallel machines that are offered by the vendors of various parallel computers are geared towards their computer models and loaded with machine-specific details. Early academic texts, precisely because they were early, have tended either to concentrate on algorithms more than programming per se, or to concentrate on a collection of languages or systems rather than on the underlying principles. Carnegie Mellon University has offered an undergraduate course on the programming of parallel machines for undergraduate students for the last two years. This course is designed to expose the students to the principal models of programming parallel machines, and to provide hands-on experience (on an Encore MultiMax and Cray YMP) using these models. The course emphasizes conceptual models, as well as measurement and evaluation techniques, over machine-specific details to achieve a high degree of host machine independence. The course concentrates on the principles that are the foundation for various programming styles. Speeitically, the course addresses the programming styles of message passing, shared memory, (SIMD) data parallelism, and the extraction of parallelism (vector parallelism). This work was suppmedin pm by a grant fmm Cray Re.wxmh Inc., by &e Pittsburgh Suparemnpwing Cantsr (pSC), and by ttre School of Compumr Scisnce of Carnegie MeUon Uekwsity. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copias are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying ie by permieeion of the Association for Computing Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission. @ 1991 ACM 0.89791 .377 -9/91 /0002-0102,.. $1 .50