Economic growth is an important factor in reducing poverty and generating the resources necessary for human development and environmental protection. However, along with economic growth we also need well-functioning civil institutions, secure individual and property rights, and most importantly broad-based health services for raising overall living standards. Therefore in 2000, under the guidance of United Nations, governments across the world set out the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), a series of commitments to lift around 500 million people out of poverty by 2015. Despite these efforts, in 2013, OxFam International reports that in developing countries every day 1,400 women die needlessly in pregnancy and childbirth. The problem is not of intent but an "inability to scale" the solutions of today to provide cost effective access to medical care. The DARE 2013 workshop was organized to bring together computer scientists working to address issues in healthcare together to understand the state-of-the-art and to highlight challenges and discuss potential ways for solving them. 
 
The call for papers attracted several quality submissions from leading Computer Science researchers working to bring innovative solutions for providing data management and manalytics challenges in healthcare. Most papers focused on the challenges in integrating data from the diverse data collected in large hospitals. 
 
After review we chose five papers for presentation at the workshop. Solutions presented include building taxonomy for indexing medical records, integrating multiple datasets to get a unified view and using background knowledge to understand clinical notes.We would like to thank our Program Committee for selecting this high quality program for DARE 2013. 
 
We also invited three leading researchers working at the confluence of CS and Healthcare to present invited talks. Special thanks to Charles Boicey (Informatics Solutions Architect, University of California, Irvine), Prof. Amit Sheth (Kno.e.sis @ Wright State University) and Dr Hulya Farinas (Sr. Principal Data Scientist, Healthcare & Lifesciences, Pivotal Inc) for giving invited talks derived from their experiences in implementing healthcare data analytics solutions. 
 
Details about DARE 2013 including list of accepted papers are available at https://sites.google.com/site/ubnambiar/dare2013/