BGP Blackholing is an effective mitigation solution for networks to counter the frequent Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks. It enables to drop all network traffic that is directed towards a particular victim prefix under DDoS attack, ideally, as close to the source as possible. Despite its huge importance in the Internet, there is no tool available for the real-time visualization of BGP Blackholing activity. Visualization is one of the most powerful techniques for network operators to monitor network activity. From discovering successful network topology to expose anomalous behaviors in networks, easy-to-use visualizations are powerful weapons to capture important patterns on the Internet traffic[1, 5]. In this work, we propose a first real-time BGP Blackholing Visibility Tool (named as SmartX BGP-BVT) to detect and visualize community based BGP Blackholing on live BGP data. This tool will be helpful for network operators and researchers interested in BGP Blackholing service and DDoS mitigation in the Internet. Analysis of BGP Blackholing on BGP datasets and its significant usage rate is highlighted in the literature [2, 3]. Community based BGP Blackholing enables with the help of BGP community attribute. So, for the monitoring of BGP Blackholing activity, first, we need to collect all BGP Blackhole communities from the Internet. Today, many networks including ISPs and IXPs offer BGP Blackholing service to their customers, and they publish their corresponding BGP Blackhole communities either on their official Web pages or in their Internet Routing Registry (IRR) records. By following Giotsas et al. [3] methodology, we make BGP Blackhole communities dictionary that is described in detail in our previous work [2]. To the best of our knowledge, SmartX BGP BVT3 is the first real-time BGP Blackholing Visibility Tool which visualizes community-based BGP Blackholing with the help of Blackhole Communities Dictionary. However, real-time BGP Blackholing visualizations are helpful for measuring the current adoption rate of this mitigation solution and also can serve as a proxy for identifying DDoS attacks.