It is our great pleasure to welcome you to the 2015 International Workshop on Security in Cloud Computing (SCC). 
 
Cloud computing has emerged as today's most exciting computing paradigm shift in information technology, since it promises numerous benefits, including lower costs, rapid scaling, easier maintenance, and ubiquitous availability. Meanwhile, cloud computing also raises many unique security and privacy challenges, especially when data and computation are outsourced to infrastructures which can be shared by multiple tenants, which requires expertise from various domains including access control, accountability, applied cryptography, architecture, auditing, availability, communications, dependability, hardware security, privacy-enhancing technologies, regulatory compliance, storage systems, trusted computing, to name a few. This workshop aims to bring together the research efforts from both the academia and industry in all security aspects related to cloud computing. 
 
This is the third year for our SCC workshop and we have witnessed steady growth. We received 25 submissions from fourteen countries covering four continents, including Australia, China, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Russian Federation, and United States. The submissions were reviewed by a Technical Program Committee of 50 experts from eighteen countries or regions (again covering four continents, including Australia, Austria, Canada, China, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and United States). Most submissions received at least 4 review reports. The final program contains 8 papers, representing an acceptance rate of 32%. We thank the Program Committee members as well as 19 external reviewers for their volunteer work, EasyChair for providing a user-friendly system for our review process, and all the people who contributed to the success of SCC. 
 
This year's SCC workshop also features "Short Talks on Emerging Areas in Cloud Security", by Dr. Sherman S.M. Chow from the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), Hong Kong, on "Processing Encrypted Data", and Dr. Cong Wang from City University of Hong Kong (CityU), Hong Kong, on "Some Challenges on Enabling Encrypted Cloud Media Centre". This session is organized by Dr. Kui Ren from the State University of New York at Buffalo, USA, who will also give us the keynote on "Secure Outsourcing Image Feature Extraction: Challenges and Solutions". We hope that you will find this program interesting and thought-provoking.