Problem solving is a task which is basic to many every day situations. Generally, people are not fully aware of the thought processes which enter into the solution of their particular situation. A problem presents itself and the solution, if determined, is implemented. Humans are able to solve problems in a relatively informal manner. Computers, due to their limited abilities, usually cannot be used to solve problems in this fashion. Greater success in computerized problem solution is often attained through strict, rigid expression of the problem and of its solution (i.e. a structured approach).
 There are a variety of techniques which one can use in formally defining a problem situation. One that has found some favor is to precisely define the problem by subdividing it into lesser problems and then to define the subproblems into lesser problems until the entire problem has been broken into relatively elementary operations. The problem and all of its subdivisions are then analyzed in order to determine the required input values (i.e. what information or action does each segment need in order to perform its function properly?), and the required output values (i.e. what information or action does the step produce in order for succeeding steps to perform their function properly or for the solution to the problem to be furthered?). Completion of the subdivision and analysis steps is followed by translation of the problem into a computer language and by the subsequent testing of the solution to insure that it is truly correct.
 Four commonly used methods for expression of the analyses of the problem are a word description of the problem, a list of the major points of the problem, a “flowchart” of the problem, or an artificial language (commonly a computer language) description of the problem solution. Quite often a combination of the four basic methods is employed. The main purpose of the methods is to completely define the problem and its solution so that every facet of these two items is completely understood. Consequently, it is best to employ whatever method or combination of methods one finds easiest to use in order to further his comprehension of the problem.