For many years I have wanted to give a talk like this: look backon our subject, identify the high (and perhaps low) points,consider what worked, what did not work, and speculate a littleabout the future. Now that I at last have the opportunity to givesuch a talk the realisation has dawned just how difficult it is todo justice to the topic. The only way out of this difficulty for meis to emphasise that this is a personal account, based on myinvolvement with the field since 1968, and that errors of omissionand commission are not deliberate but simply due to lack ofknowledge and time on my part.
To talk of landmarks is easy but to say what they are in IR isnot. They come in various shapes and sizes: events, publications,experiment, ideas, etc. In the course of this presentation I shallbe judiciously mixing all of these. However, the emphasis will beon ideas and their subsequent modelling and testing throughexperimentation. The interaction between theory and experiment willbe a recurring theme. I will try and associate these developmentswith key individuals, thereby running the risk of ignoring some; Iapologise for this in advance.
The pre-history of our subject can be traced back to the work inthe 19th century, perhaps even further, but I will pick it up atthe middle of the last century (20th) starting with the work ofRobert Fairthorne and Vannevar Bush. This early work emphasised thepossibility of using mechanical devices to store and retrieveinformation. Of course the foundations of modern informationretrieval were properly laid after 1945 with the pioneering work ofCleverdon, Salton, Sparck Jones, and others. This work gave rise toa strong experimental methodology for the evaluation of theoreticalideas, which has been sustained to this day. It has been a hallmarkof IR research that theory is developed in the context ofexperimentation. There is no doubt that many disciplines arejealous of the success of TREC.
IR research has thrown up a number of successful models. Thesemodels have been based on some, often unstated, assumptions (orhypotheses). I will attempt to identify some of the underlyingideas, giving credit where is due, that led to the fruitfulexploration of retrieval models. This will include system-orientedas well as user-oriented ideas, especially those concerned with themeasurement of retrieval performance.
IR has been fortunate in that the subject has grown through theactive collaboration between computer scientists and informationscientists. This has meant that traditional approaches to thestorage and retrieval of information emanating from the libraryworld, for example, have always strongly influenced newdevelopments. This tension between manual (human) processes andautomatic computer-based processes in IR has always been fruitful.Even now with the evolution of ideas about meta-data and ontologiesneeded to enhance web retrieval, the debate about controlledvocabularies versus automatic indexing is relevant. Issues ofscalability are particularly important here.
One of the strengths that have emerged in our subject is thatmany of our models can be deployed independently of medium ormodality. For example, retrieving images or audio sequences can behandled in ways similar to those used to retrieve text data. Thishas proved to be great boon to IR. The development of web retrievalthrough the deployment of various kinds of search engines has beenbased on the considerable early work in IR although detailing thespecific influences is not easy. It is clear that the underlyingmathematical and statistical models in IR have been ubiquitous inapplication. The extreme difficulty encountered in making NLP workfor IR forced researchers to develop powerful statistical,probabilistic, geometrical, and logical techniques to complementlinguistic ones. This is now paying off because of the similardifficulties encountered in other media.
Having given some account of how we got here I will spend alittle time talking about where we go from here, how do we extractthe message from the bottle?