This paper 1 presents a new model for the production of natural language. The novel idea is to combine incremental and bidirectional generation with parallelism. The operational basis of our model is a distributed parallel system at every level of representation. Starting point of the production are segments of the conceptual level. These segments are related to active objects which have to map themselves across the linguistic levels (i.e. functional-semantic, syntactic and morphologic level) as fast and as independently as possible. Therefore the in-cremental behavior caused by a successive input is propagated on all levels. Linguistic requirements detected by objects which are related to already produced segments at any level influence and restrict the decision of what to say next. 1 Introduction In an incremental generation system the component determining the contents of the desired utterances (what-to-say component) can submit prematurely computed partial results to the how-to-say component in order to activate the production process before the planning is complete. Such systems simulate an important property of language production processes in human speakers: humans often start speaking before they know exactly what the whole contents of the utterance will be [Schriefers and Pechmann 88]. The how-to-say component must try to map its input structures across all representation levels as fast as possible to maintain the incremental behavior involved by the successive input. This results in speeding up the generator's output. A quick verbalization of parts of the contents is necessary if a user in man-machine communication must immediately react on this information (e.g. in systems for air traffic control). In the case that the mapping of a partial structure is not possible because of unspecified but required elements, it is necessary to request missing information from the pre-1 The work presented here is being supported by the Gernan Science Foundation (DFG) in its Special Collaborative Program on AI and Knowledge-Based Systems (SFB 314), project Nl (XTRA). Thanks to Barbara Fairlight and Norbert Reithinger for their helpful comments on previous versions of this paper. ceding level. This allows the continuation of the production , set in motion by the how-to-say component. As a consequence, linguistic restrictions detected during the production provide feedback for the planning of what to say next [Hovy 87], [Reithinger 88]. Because the single partial structures shall be verbalized independently, we decided to consider them as active and autonomous objects which have to verbalize themselves. Then the whole …