I/O parallelism appears to be a promising approach to achieving high performance in parallel database systems. In such systems, it is essential to decluster database files into fragments and spread them across multiple disks so that the DBMS software can exploit the I/O bandwidth reading and writing the diiks in parallel. In this paper, we consider the problem of declustering multidimensional data on a parallel disk system. Since the multidimensional range que-q is the main work-horse for applications accessing such data, our aim is to provide efficient support for it. A new declustering method for parallel disk systems, called coordinate modulo distribution (CMD), is proposed. Our analysis shows that the method achieves optimum parallelism for a very high percentage of range queries on multidimensional data, if the distribution of data on each dimension is stationary. We have derived the *Supported in part by National Science Foundation Grant No. IRI-9110584. iOn leave from HeiIongjiang University, P. FL China. *Computer Science F&search Dept., Lawrence Berkeley Lab., and the Department of Marketing and Quantitative Studies, San Jose State University, San Jose, California. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial advantage, the VLDB copyright notice and the title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Very Large Data Base Endowment. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or special permisJIon from the Endowment. Proceedings of the 18th VLDB Conference Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 1992 exact conditions under which optimality is achieved. Also provided are the worst and average case bounds on multidimensional range query performance. Experimental results show that the method achieves near optimum performance in almost all cases even when the stationarity assumption does not hold. Details of the parallel algorithms for range query processing and data maintenance are also provided.