Accurate nominal compound analysis is crucial for in application of natural language processing such as information retrieval and extraction as well as nominal compound interpretation. I,n the nominal compound analysis area, some corpus-based approaches have reported successful results by using statistal cooccurrences of nouns. But a nominal compound often has the similar s t ructure to a simple sentence, e.g. the complement-predicate structure, as well as representing compound meaning with several nouns combined. Due to the grammarical characteristics of nominal compounds, the fi'amework based only on statistcal association between nouns often fails to analyze their structures accurately, especially in Korean. This pcper presents a new model for Korean nominal compound analysis on the basis of linguistic and statistical knowledge. The syntactic relations often have an effect on determining the structure of nominal compounds, and we analyzed 40 million word corpus in order to acquire syntactic and s-tatistical knowledge. The structure of a nominal compound is analyzed based on the linguistic lexical information extracted. By experiments, it is shown that our method is effective for accurate analysis of Korean nominal compounds. 1 I n t r o d u c t i o n Nominal compound analysis is one of crucial issues that have been continuously studied by computat ional and theoretical linguists. Many linguists have dealt with nonlinal compounds in view of semantic interpretation, and tried to explain how nominal compounds are semantiThis work was partially supported by a KOSEF's postdoctoral fellowship grant. cally interpreted (Levi, 1978; Selkirk, 1982). In the field of natural language processing, various computat ional models have been established for syntactic analysis and semantic interpretat ion of nominal compounds (Finin, 1980; McDonald, 1982; Arens ct al. , 1987; Pustejovsky et al. , 1993; Kobayasi et al. , 1994; Vanderwerde, 1994; Lauer, 1995). Recently it has been shown that noun phrase analysis is effecrive for the improvement of the application of natural language processing such as information retrieval (Zhai, 1997). Parsing nominal compound is a basic step for ~11 problems related to it. From a bracketing point of view, structural ambiguity is also a main problem in nominal compomld analysis like in other parsing problems. Re(:ent works have shown that the corpus-b;~sed approach for nominal compound analysis makes a good result to resolve the ambiguities (Fustcjovsky et al. , 1993; Kobayasi et al. , 1994; Lauer, 1995; Zhai, 1997). Lauer (1995) has compared two diffbrent models of corpus-based approaches fbr nominal compound analysis. One was called as the adjacency model which was inspired by (Pustejovsky et al. , 1993), and the other was referred to as the dependency model which was presented by Kobayasi ~t al. (1994) 2 and Lauer (t995). Given a nominal compound of three nouns n~'-.2'a:~, let A.s. t)e a metric used to evaluate the association of two nouns. In the adjacency model, if A.~(',,l:',J.2) > A .s (n2 ,n3) , then the structure is determined as (('hi 'n2) n3). Otherwise, ('nl (',l,~ 'n:,)). On the other hand, in 2In their work, the structure is determined l)y comparing the multiplication of the ~ssociations between all two nOuns, that is, by comImring A,s('..t, 'n2)A.s(n2, n3) and AS(nl, n3) As (n2, ',l.:~). It m~tkes similar results to the dependency model.