I take user modelling to imply reasoning, explicitly or quasi-explicitly, about the user. Thus while systems or interfaces usually embed assumptions about their users (eg they know English or find some icon mnemonic), and defacto exploit these assumptions, this is not real user modelling. But we cannot talk about the need for or nature of user modelling, let alone its feasibility, without reference to the critical features of the context. These are (1) the role of the human: agent or patient (2) the status of the user: central or peripheral (3) the orientation of the activity: outward or inward (4) the character of the information: deep or shallow. In one salient class of contexts, illustrated by advice systems like UC, there is one individual who is both agent, the person operating the interface, and patient, the person about whom the system is taking decisions. The user is central rather than peripheral as the system task is to support him. The system-user activity is directed outwards towards the user rather than from the user to other system functions. Finally, the information about the user supplying the substance of the model is deep in the sense of dealing with the user’s beliefs, goals and plans, as opposed to shallow in the way a simple log of mentioned topics would be. Instruction systems may also have some or all of these properties. But users may figure in quite other ways, including those where agent and patient are distinct individuals with their own proper beliefs and goals, as with lawyer and client; those where the user is subordinate or peripheral, as in industrial plant control, so the dialogue manager with its user modeller is a secondary and not the dominant system component; those where the user is the starting rather than the end point for system action, as in document production; and those where the information about the user is extensional and not intensional, as with social security status for example. In many contexts where it seems legitimate to refer