Multiple processor systems based on an open bus architecture and composite Von Neumann-type computing devices can be used effectively in AI and other cpu-memory intensive applications. A combination of parallel and hierarchically functioning commercial microprocessor-based computers (MC680X0 family) working from an industry-standard bus (IEEE-796 Multibus), together wlth certain other architectural enhancements, provide a flexible hardware solution to a large class of computationally severe problems. Such an architecture, deployed in both a development (host) computer and an embeddable (target) computer, can be an effective interim engineering emulation of future non-Von parallel/hierarchical architectures. This architecture, dubbed Closely Coupled Asynchronous Hierarchical and Parallel Processing (CCAHPP) is presented herein. ARCH I T E CIiiB_AL_D.~51_G_N__MDTI~ATION The need for a hierarchical and parallel processing structure arises from a large class of embedded processor software problems. Such problems are generated by the requirements to be able to handle both high speed real-time data and I/O processing, as well as (and often combined with) Artificial Intelligence (AI) applications. The former requirement tends to be fixed and floating point arithmetic intensive, the latter string-intensive. Ada, M~tl_t.~Jplgcessors, a_n~] A_I The software system development and execution language which appears to offer the most optimal mix of capabilities to handle real-time tasks, arithmetic, and string manipulation is Ada. Further, the inherent modularity and tasking intrinsics which characterize Ada make it readily adaptable to a hierarchical/parallel processing hardware environment. Essentially for these reasons, INTELLIMAC has chosen Ada as the company's primary system language for real-time and AI applications. AI applications, typically semantic information processing and pattern recognition; lend themselves readily to functional decomposition into asynchronous processes which are quite often sequence independent. These quasi-independent processes can then be spread across a closely coupled multiple cpu-memory architecture for vastly increased thruput. ~/l~/~/li~9.9_tj;re Host and Target The host/target pair for these applications is INTELLIMAC's commercial multiprocessor IN/7000M and its militarized clone, the IN/7000AT/M. These systems are based on the off-the-shelf MC680X0 microprocessor family and the industry-standard IEEE-796 Multibus. An "open" approach to the system design facilitates and encourages software development. Apopular bus provides the capability for rapid prototyping via a rich supply of off-the-shelf special purpose Multibus boards. Most importantly (from a life-cycle cost standpoint), the Ada language ensures modularity, portability, and re-usable software components. CCAHPP SYSTEM COMPONENTS To the extent possible, in both commercial host and militarized target systems, the IN/7000 CCAHPP components have been designed to be modular single board devices. System thruput capabilities can be increased by the insertion of additional boards into the system's backplane. The IN/7000 has 3 different types of single board computers (not counting 0149-7111/85/0000/0215501.00 © 1985 IEEE 215 peripheral controllers), 2 different types of memory boards (plus cpu on-board dual ported memory), and 2 different buses, as shown in Figure i. CLOSELY COUPLED ASYNCHRONOUS HIERARCHICAL and PARALLEL PROCESSING ARCH~ECTURE