We address the case of search over large, heterogeneous web sites such as those found at universities and within corporate intranets. The goal is to make use of structure implicit within the site to provide context for the retrieved documents, even for those sites for which there is no centralized organization. Most web site search, if available, presents results as a list of titles and URLs (and optionally, summary information and an opaque score). The context in which the pages appeared, and their relationship to one another, cannot be discerned from such a display. Our alternative is to place the retrieved pages within an automatically generated context. For each hit, we determine a root page (typically, the home page for a server within the target domain) and find and display the shortest path from the root to the retrieved page. Hits that share paths are grouped together. Thus, a hierarchical structure is dynamically imposed on the search results. We demonstrate our idea on web pages within the berkeley.edu domain. (Space does not permit inclusion of a screenshot.) We have found this grouping by link path information, although simple, is a surprisingly effective way to organize what might otherwise be perceived as a disconnected jumble of pages. The system, which we call Cha-cha, is written in Java. A web crawler gathers inlink, outlink, and title information from all the pages in the domain of interest and builds up a graph representation, which is stored in a disk-based database (from www.sleepycat.com). Searches are sent to the Inktomi search engine via a specially set up connection, using Inktomi’s IDP protocol (www.inktomi.com). The results returned are parsed into a set of hits. For each hit, the root node is the home page for the server on which the hit is located, and a bidirectional shortest path search is conducted from the root to each hit. A new graph is constructed that combines all the paths so that hits located close together in web space are shown near one another in the display. Hierarchially structured HTML is produced by traversing this graph. This work is closely related to that of SuperBook [l], which demonstrated that showing hit search results in the context of the chapters and sections of the manual from which they are drawn can improve users’ information ac-