The index (first) finger of the dominant hand seems to be an intuitively natural and efficient means for pointing tasks. This paper presents the design of a device to enable pointing with the index finger as an interaction technique in mobile computers. The device, which uses infrared emission and detection to determine where on a screen the finger is pointing, is inexpensive and can easily be incorporated into a laptop computer. KEY W 0 R DS : Pointing, Interaction devices, Input devices, Infrared detection. INTRODUCTION Pointing with the index finger seems to be a fundamental means of communication among humans. Studies have shown [2] that infants as young as two months will extend the index finger as a means of indicating a desire for attention. By twelve months, infants show facility for both responding to the directional gaze of their mothers by pointing in the direction of the gaze and pointing at an object in order to direct their mothers’ gaze towards it. It is interesting that most pointing devices used with computers (mice, styli, trackballs, joysticks etc.) have little or nothing in common with natural pointing. Notable exceptions are [l] which exploited natural pointing with the entire hand arm system and, more recently the FingerMouse [3] which uses video and image processing to determine both the direction the finger is pointing and the configuration of the hand. Perwission to mnke digiirnl/hnrd cofiirs ofall or pnrl oflhis mlcrinl for perso~nl or clnssroonl use is granted without fee provided thnt the copies are not nlndr or distributed tbr pro12 or conunercinl ndvnnlrgr. IIIC copy. right notice. the title of the publication and its dale appear. and notice is given lhnt copyright is by pcrmissiorl ofthe ACM, hlc. To copy otherwise. . IO republish. lo post 011 wvers or IO redistribute to lists, requires specific permission nnd/or fee UIST 97 I3clnfl.4lbertn, c.hxiff Copyright 1997 ACM 0-89791~881-9/97/lO..S3.50 PHYSIOLOGICAL BASIS Pointing with index finger extended is not only an intuitive behavior, it is also a behavior that humans can perform with a high degree of facility. A relatively large proportion of the primary motor cortex is dedicated to controlling the fingers and the neural connection path from the cortex to the finger muscles is relatively direct [4] yielding a high degree of fine motor control. If you take a moment to point at a few objects in the surrounding environment you will note that your intuitive pointing motion is to extend your index finger in the direction of the target object. If you assume your hand is positioned on the keyboard of a laptop and point only with the index finger you will note that the range of motion is more than sufficient to cover the area of a typical laptop screen. This is an additional advantage of pointing with the finger: since you don’t have to take your hand off the keyboard you avoid the problem of alternating device acquisition. To benefit from these physiological advantages, you must be pointing at the target directly with the finger itself, not using one or more fingers indirectly to control a cursor through a device such as a mouse or trackball. DESIGN FOR MOBILE COMPUTING Mobile computing introduces constraints on input devices that are not present in a workstation environment. Input devices cannot be too large or expensive and they must be contained within the mobile unit (e.g. laptop) or easily attached to it. The input devices most frequently available with laptop computers, trackballs, scratchpads, and isometric joysticks, satisfy these constraints but are used in a relatively difficult indirect control method which most users find less than fully satisfactory. This is why so many users plug a mouse into their laptops whenever possible.