This paper is a continuation of the work iuitiated in [2] by M. Luby and C:. Rackoff on pseudorandoul function and permutations. The objective of this paper is to study pseudorandoxu functiou generators and pseudoraudoul pernmtation generators that are proven secure against an euenly that can perforul unhuited computation.. but has only access to a limited nuulber of cleartext/ciphertext pairs. Moreover, lie can “dynauiically” choose these pairs. 111 sectiou 4, we describe some improvements on the ~~OWII security results ou Feistel schemes with six (or more) rounds. These results are slight inlprovenleuts of the results of p] on Feistel sclleules with more thau three rounds. In the uext sectious we design soule new pseudorandoul perumtatiou generators. (.:ompared to other previously proposed generators, the plain interest of our uew pseudorandonl permutation generators is that they need a much shorter secret key to reach the same level of proven security. Asymptotically with a secret key of approximately 2” bits, we show, for all integers p, a permutation generator that can resist approxhately 2”“/(“+‘) bits obtained in a chosen ciphertext and chosen plaintext attack. Moreover, by using a recent result of [l] we also show how to design a permutation generator that can resist approximately 2” such bits. This holds even if the attacker has unlimited computing power. This must be compared with the 2”p aud 22n’n of previous permutation generators and with the 2” bits of the best possible bound against unhited computations (due to Qhanuon’s theorem). Thus the length of the required secret keys is close to the inininial theoretical leugth that is necessary to resist unlimited computation... Our generators can aLso be used in order to obtain pseudorandom sequence generators. An extended version of this paper cau be obtained from the author. Permission lo make di&lhnrd copies of sll or pr,a oftllis mnterinl for Pe~Onnl Or CbWrOOln use is gmntcd without fee provided u,at die copies are no* nlnde or disMnwl for profit or conuuercinl ndvrultlge, llle copyridlt uolice. he title of the publicstion nnd its date appear, and notice is given fllsl copyridlt is by penuission of the ACM, Inc. To copy oulerwise, lo republish lo post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires specific perruission and/or fee CCS 97, Zurich, Switzerlnnd ‘hJ’+$~ 1997 ACM O-89791-91%2/97/o4 ..$3.50