Information seeking, such as searching for a particular vacation package or looking for a Christmas gift online, is almost a routine task in our daily life. However the seeking process can often be very difficult and time consuming due to the following three main reasons. First users must face many choices because of the sheer volume of data that has been made available. Second, traditional GUI-based data access and navigation models are very limited when dealing with large and complex information spaces. Specifically, a pure GUI-based system is not flexible enough to allow users to express complex data queries that may involve multiple data linkages. For example, it would be very difficult to handle user queries, such as " find me 3 days/2 nights vacation packages to a destination with an average annual temperature at least over 70F ". In addition, most current access/navigation models are context insensitive. Continuing the above example, most systems would not be able to understand any follow up queries, such as " how about just to those cities in Europe ". Users may also get lost when facing too many choices or get stuck if there is no data satisfying their criteria. Third, existing systems normally organize and present the retrieved information in a one-size-fits-all format, which may not be easily understood or digested by the users. To address all the above issues and better aid users in their information seeking process, we are building a context sensitive framework, called Responsive Information Architect (RIA), which engages users in automatically generated multimedia conversations. Unlike existing information browsing paradigm that forces users to explore information following pre-defined paths (e.g., GUI menus), RIA allows users to express their information requests flexibly using a mixture of input modalities, including speech, text, and gesture. Using a rich context, such as conversation history and data semantics, RIA is capable of understanding user inputs, including these complex data queries (e.g., " tell me about cities in the north along Hudson with at least 5000 people "), abbreviated inquiries (e.g., " what about golf courses "), or imprecise requests (e.g., inaccurate gesture inputs). By tracking and learning from user navigation patterns, RIA is also able to aid users in navigating large and complex information space intelligently. In particular, RIA can help users to refine their queries by indicating the most effective navigation path when there is too much data retrieved, or to automatically …