theorem or a theory, he has a lot more in mind than just the deductive details. He also has command intuitively, if not self consciously, of certain special classes of examples and heuristic advice. At least three broad categories of information are necessary to represent mathematical knowledge: results which contain the traditional logical aspects of mathematics, i.e., theorems and proofs; examples which contain illustrative material; and concepts which include mathematical definitions and heuristic advice. Just as results can be structured by the relation of logical deduction in which A-> B means that result A is used to prove result B, examples and concepts can also be organized by relations. Examples can be ordered by the relation of fabricational derivation in which A-• > B means that example A is used to construct example B. For instance, the Cantor function is fabricated from the Cantor set, which in turn is fabricated from the unit interval. Concepts can be structured by the relation of pedagogical ordering which embodies the pedagogical judgement that concept A should be introduced before concept B. These three fundamental categories of items together with the special relations define three representation spaces for a mathematical theory: Re suits-space, Examples-space, Concepts-space. Recognizing that some theory items serve different functions than others in our understanding, we single out those that play special roles by establishing epistemological classes For instance, when we learn a theory for the first time, there are certain perspicuous start-up examples which we can grasp immediately. Reference examples are examples that we refer to over and over again as we wend our way through a theory. Model examples are paradigm situations that suggest to us the essence of a result or concept. And of course, there are counterexamples. In addition to definitions, Concepts-space contains the heuristic advice that we give to ourselves (and to others) while working in a theory. Mega-principles provide kernels of wisdom in the form of powerful suggestions such as "Let n=2". Counter-principles are cautions that indicate possible sources of blunders or troubles, such as the warning "Don't divide by 0". Results-space also has many subclasses of items Among them are basic results which establish elementary, but important, properties of concepts, and culminating results which are results towards which the theory drives. When we consider a theory item, we can fit it into its representation space by determining its predecessors and successors. We can also …