and S are a start state and a start symbol, respectively.) is activated by a reducel or reduce2 action, and this processor reads the terminal symbol (the end mark), by a shift action, then the input string is accepted. If there are no processors performing a shift and a reducel action, the input string is rejected. 4.3 Handling Syntactic Features In order to extend the syntactic analysis method of 4.2 so that it can handle syntactic features, reduced information is improved as follows: [Definition 1] reduced information: Reduced information is defined as where sc means a list of SC features which has the form The reducing table is also extended for the newly defined reduced information. Table 1 shows the extended reducing table. By handling these syntactic features, a reduce2 action follows the constraints: Constraints for a reduce2 action • Inhibition of duplicated reference: In performing reduce2 actions, if an element of SC in reduced information is in agreement with the GR component of a DAG node, the element is marked with V. If, during a reduce2 action, a GR component , which matches a marked element is found, the reduce2 action aborts. • Inhibition of wrong type reference: If, during a reduce2 action, a GR component does not match any element of SC in reduced information, the reduce2 action aborts. As mentioned above, the syntactic analysis is allowed to handle an unrestricted word order by using SC features as a list, since GR is not attached to PS. This method is also adopted by JPSG[Gun87 ]. In figure 5, the parsing of Japanese sentence Watashi ha Kare ni Australia ni Iku to Itta(I told him that I would go to Australia.) is shown as an example. The form of the DAG node used in this example is The fs has the form where means optional. No marked SC feature means a gap(missing constituent). In the figure, sbj which is a SC feature of the verb Iku, stands for a gap. The reduction by with both and failed because obj2 is not in agreement with any subcategorization elements in the list Reference table boole Entry table i reduced information Table 1: A reducing table assigned to a DAG node dn 5 Conclusion We proposed a coordinated parallel processing method for morphological and syntactic analyses of Japanese language. The proposed parallel parser is extended from the previous parser[MiTaAm90b ] so that …