Since the selection of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC) standardization algorithms, research on integrating PQC into security protocols such as TLS/SSL, IPSec, and DNSSEC has been actively pursued. However, PQC migration for Internet of Things (IoT) communication protocols remains largely unexplored. Embedded devices in IoT environments have limited computational power and memory, making it crucial to optimize PQC algorithms for efficient computation and minimal memory usage when deploying them on low-spec IoT devices. In this paper, we introduce KEM-MQTT, a lightweight and efficient Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM) for the Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) protocol, widely used in IoT environments. Our approach applies the NIST KEM algorithm Crystals-Kyber (Kyber) while leveraging MQTT’s characteristics and sensor node constraints. To enhance efficiency, we address certificate verification issues and adopt KEMTLS [71] to eliminate the need for Post-Quantum Digital Signatures Algorithm (PQC-DSA) in mutual authentication. As a result, KEM-MQTT retains its lightweight properties while maintaining the security guarantees of TLS 1.3. We identify inefficiencies in existing Kyber implementations on 8-bit AVR microcontrollers (MCUs), which are highly resource-constrained. To address this, we propose novel implementation techniques that optimize Kyber for AVR, focusing on high-speed execution, reduced memory consumption, and secure implementation, including Signed LookUp-Table (LUT) Reduction. Our optimized Kyber achieves performance gains of 81%,75%, and 85% in the KeyGen, Encaps, and DeCaps processes, respectively, compared to the reference implementation. With approximately 3 KB of stack usage, our Kyber implementation surpasses all state-of-the-art Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) implementations. Finally, in KEM-MQTT using Kyber-512, an 8-bit AVR device completes the handshake preparation process in 4.32 seconds, excluding the physical transmission and reception times.