This thesis presents a parallel toolkit for pairwise distance computation in massive networks. Computing the exact shortest paths between a large number of vertices is a costly operation and serial algorithms are not practical for billion-scale graphs. We first describe an efficient parallel method to solve the single source shortest path problem on commodity hardware with no shared memory. Given a source vertex s, the traditional solutions to this problem typically return one shortest path for each ( s, v) pair in the graph where v ∈ V . We slightly modify the original problem definition and extract multiple shortest paths between each (s, v) pair. An important characteristic of large real-world graphs is the skewed degree distribution where the fraction p(k) of vertices with degree k asymptotically follows a power law. In parallel frameworks, the skewed degree distribution often results in straggling tasks and under-utilization of the computing hardware. A large number of idle computers wait for a small number of busy ones that consume a lot of CPU cycles while processing a few vertices with very high degree. The presented algorithm for solving the single source shortest path problem includes a load balancing technique to deal with the skewed degree distribution in large graphs. We also describe two novel optimization methods called Selective Push and Incremental Graph Serialization to avoid generating and exchanging redundant messages between compute nodes while minimizing the amount of data shuffled through the network. 
Using the output of the first algorithm as a building block, we introduce a new parallel algorithm to estimate shortest paths between arbitrary pairs of vertices. Our method exploits data locality, produces highly accurate results and allows batch computation of shortest paths with 7% average error in graphs that contain billions of edges. The proposed algorithm is up to two orders of magnitude faster than previously suggested algorithms on a single computer and it does not require large amounts of memory or expensive high-end servers. Furthermore, this algorithm runs in parallel where each compute node can work on a different subset of vertex pairs independently. We present alternative parallel implementations of this method and discuss their efficiency using a communication cost model. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first algorithm that can approximate pairwise distance in large batches based on an embarrassingly parallel scheme. 
We finally look at alternative methods to approximate the closeness and betweenness centrality metrics, which involve systems challenges dealing with indexing, joining and comparing large datasets efficiently. Exact computation of these measures involves solving the all pairs shortest path problem. Existing parallel algorithms for approximating closeness and betweenness centrality are designed for high-end shared memory symmetric multiprocessor architectures. Graph size is still a limiting factor as these algorithms are memory intensive, and they do not exhibit high degrees of cache and memory locality. There is also the hardware cost and availability issue. Most network scientists do not have direct access to super computers or high-end shared memory multiprocessor architectures. On the other hand, commodity clusters and shared nothing architectures with independent compute nodes are becoming widely available. They are also offered through cloud computing vendors in the form of infrastructure as a service. We use the parallel distance estimation algorithm to approximate the closeness and betweenness centrality metrics in large graphs. In one experiment, we mined a real-world web graph with 700 million nodes and 12 billion edges toidentify the most central vertices and calculated more than 63 billion shortest paths in 6 hours on a 20-node commodity cluster.