The price of computing equipment is decreasing at a rate of about 30% per year and the cost of professional time is steadily increasing, driving industry to focus on improving professional productivity.Computer-aided engineering (design, analysis, research, testing, and planning) is a problem area where professional creativity and equipment flexibility are of paramount importance to success. Engineers and scientists are not typically computer professionals; they intimately understand the application at hand and do not want to he bogged down either with computerese and 25 manuals which might contain a desired answer, or with explaining enough of the problem to a computer professional to have the program written by someone else. Ideally, the problem solution should come from the engineer or scientist when viewed from an efficiency perspective. In such application areas, price/performance is no longer the primary factor in selecting computing equipment; ease of adaptability and availability/accessibility are becoming more important criteria when identifying a computer which can provide effective man/machine synergy.The HP 9845 Computing System has the HP IMAGE DBM System capability available as a tool for its users. To help non-computer people to design data bases (the most difficult and frightening part of using data base), we have created a data base design kit manual. This manual will guide a user, through either an intuitive or a rigorous design technique, from problem definition to a working data base diagram. From this diagram, the user is ready to define, create, and use the data base. For this, we have developed a general purpose data base management program, called QUERY/45. QUERY/45 can define and create data bases, and also provides updating facilities including adding, modifying, and deleting information with or without user-defined forms. All of the helps and teaching tools will enable engineers and scientists to use a data base without having to write any programs. After they become more experienced, the helps and menus can be bypassed in favor of formal command mode.The human factors engineering in the design of this program helps the computer system to become a partner in problem solving for the engineer or scientist.