The CKKS Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) scheme enables approximate arithmetic on encrypted complex numbers for a desired precision. Most implementations use RNS with carefully chosen parameters to balance precision, efficiency, and security. However, a key limitation in RNS-CKKS is the rigid coupling between the scale factor, which determines numerical precision, and the modulus, which ensures security. Since these parameters serve distinct roles—one governing arithmetic correctness and the other defining cryptographic structure—this dependency imposes design constraints, such as a lack of suitable NTT primes and limited precision flexibility, ultimately leading to inefficiencies. We propose Grafting, a novel approach to decouple scale factors from the modulus by introducing (universal) sprouts, reusable modulus factors that optimize word-sized packing while allowing flexible rescaling. The universal sprouts allow rescaling by arbitrary bit-lengths and key-switching at any modulus bit-length without requiring additional key-switching keys, and thus enable universal use of the underlying parameters. Decoupling the scale factor from the modulus in Grafting yields significant efficiency gains: (1) Optimized RNS packing by decomposing the modulus into machine word-sized components, accelerating computations and reducing the ciphertext and encryption/evaluation key sizes; and (2) A freely adjustable scale factor independent of the modulus, unifying the ring structure across applications and reducing modulus consumption through adaptive scalings. Our experiments demonstrate that Grafting improves performance across standard SHE/FHE parameter sets for ring dimensions 214 -216 by up to 1.83X and 2.01X for key-switchings and multiplications, respectively, and up to 1.92X for bootstrapping. Grafting also reduces public key and ciphertext sizes by up to 62% without compression, maintaining the same number of public keys as before. As an application, we showcase the CKKS gate bootstrapping for bits (Bae et al; Eurocrypt'24), achieving 1.89X speed-up due to the reduced number of RNS factors. Finally, we revisit the homomorphic comparison (Cheon et al; Asiacrypt'20), evaluating it with carefully chosen scale factors for each iteration, reporting up to 204-bit fewer modulus consumption (27% reduction) in the standard parameter set, without precision loss.