TFHE is a fully homomorphic encryption scheme over the torus that supports fast bootstrapping. Its primary evaluation mechanism is based on gate bootstrapping and programmable bootstrapping (PBS), which computes functions while simultaneously refreshing noise. PBS-based evaluation is user-friendly and efficient for small circuits; however, the number of bootstrapping operations increases exponentially with the circuit depth. To address the challenge of efficiently evaluating large-scale circuits, Chillotti et al. introduced a leveled homomorphic evaluation (LHE) mode at Asiacrypt 2017. This mode decouples circuit evaluation from bootstrapping, resulting in a speedup of hundreds of times over PBS-based methods. However, the remaining circuit bootstrapping (CBS) becomes a performance bottleneck, even though its frequency is linear with the circuit depth. In this paper, we refine the LHE mode by mitigating the high cost of CBS. First, we patch the NTT-based CBS algorithm proposed by Wang et al. [WWL+, Eurocrypt 2024], accelerating their algorithm by up to 2.6×. Then, observing the suboptimal parallelism and high complexity of modular reduction in NTT under CBS parameters, we extend WWL+ to an FFT-based algorithm by redesigning the pre-processing method and introducing a split FFT technique. This achieves the fastest CBS implementation with the smallest key size, outperforming the open-source WWL+ implementation by up to 12.1× (resp. 5.12× compared to our patched algorithm), and surpassing TFHEpp [MBM+, USENIX 2021] by 3.42× with a key size reduction of 33.2×. Furthermore, we proposed an improved integer input LHE mode by extending our CBS algorithm to support higher precision and combining it with additional optimizations such as multi-bit extraction. Compared to the previous integer input LHE mode proposed by Bergerat et al. [BBB+, JoC 2023], our approach is up to 10.7× faster with a key size reduction of up to 4.4×. To demonstrate the practicality of our improved LHE mode, we apply it to AES transciphering and general homomorphic look-up table (LUT) evaluation. For AES evaluation, our method is 4.8× faster and reduces the key size by 31.3× compared to the state-of-the-art method, Thunderbird [WLW+, TCHES 2024]. For LUT evaluation, we compare our results with the recent work of Trama et al. [TCBS, ePrint 2024/1201], which constructs a general 8-bit processor of TFHE. Our method not only achieves faster 8-to-8 LUT evaluation but also improves the efficiency of most heavy 8-bit bivariate instructions by up to 21× and the 16-bit sigmoid function by more than 26×.