Torus fully homomorphic encryption (TFHE) is a promising solution for secure computation, offering low computational cost and simple setup requirements. A key feature of TFHE is programmable bootstrap (PBS), which enables efficient homomorphic evaluation of arbitrary functions over small domains. However, the domain size of PBS is constrained by the word size limitation of TFHE, an unavoidable restriction to ensure data security. This limitation raises scalability challenges for extending homomorphic function evaluation to larger domains. Existing approaches attempt to overcome this limitation but suffer from high computational costs. The vertical packing technique (Chillotti et al., 2020) supports function evaluations beyond the word size limitation but depends on circuit bootstrap, a computationally expensive primitive. The tree-based method (Guimarães et al., 2021) avoids using circuit bootstrap but introduces significant computational overhead, requiring O(2W) PBS calls for a W-bit domain. In this paper, we propose noise calibration method that enables homomorphic function evaluation beyond the word size limitation of TFHE. Our approach supports an exponential expansion of the function domain size while achieving both low computational complexity and high accuracy. For a W-bit domain, the proposed method requires a total of only O(W2) PBS calls for homomorphic function evaluation. Experimental results show that when W is around 10, the proposed method achieves a performance improvement of about 3 times compared to the vertical packing and 10 times compared to the tree-based method, without loss of accuracy. The main advantage of the noise calibration method is its compatibility with PBS, making it highly adaptable to large-scale applications. We demonstrate its application to oblivious stable sorting for long input arrays. Experiments show that the proposed method outperforms sorting network-based methods by about 4-8 times in speed of the 4-bit array sorting and scales efficiently to array lengths beyond the word size limitation.