Asymmetric Password-Authenticated Key Exchange (aPAKE) enables secure key establishment between a client and a server using a pre-shared password, while providing security against offline attacks. However, aPAKE does not guarantee any precomputation resistance, and considers passwords to become immediately available upon server compromise. A recent work by Dayanikli and Lehmann (EuroS&P'24) observed that many existing aPAKE protocols provide stronger precomputation attack resistance than what is guaranteed through the aPAKE model: they often rely on salted password hashes, where a unique salt makes precomputation attacks more difficult. While these salts are sent in clear to the client during authentication, and thus trivial to obtain for an attacker, this makes a difference in multi-user settings with millions of user accounts per server. In order to run bulk precomputation attacks on all users' passwords, the attacker needs to start an authentication session on behalf of every user to obtain their salts. However, this protection is still limited as salts are static, and the attacker can gradually extract all salt values for precomputation attacks. In this work, we build upon the observation that many aPAKE protocols include salts for their password protection, and propose a new aPAKE variant that makes such bulk precomputation attacks practically infeasible. We propose updatable aPAKE which employs updatable salts. In updatable aPAKE, the salt is implicitly refreshed with each successful user authentication, forcing an attacker to rebuild their precomputation table after every honest user's login - offering a level of precomputation resistance similar to that of strong aPAKE protocols. We formalize the security of updatable aPAKE in the Universal Composability framework and show how OKAPE-HMQV, the currently most efficient aPAKE protocol, can be lifted to the updatable aPAKE setting in a provably secure way. The core idea is that this salt update can be integrated through relying on the password-based server-side authentication, that is already guaranteed through aPAKE. We also observe that OKAPE-HMQV is very similar to SRP-6a, the currently most widely deployed aPAKE protocol, and explain how the same idea can be used to upgrade this legacy protocol to achieve strong bulk precomputation attack resistance with minimal overhead.