Summar y This paper describes an introductor y Computer Science course very similar t o Course CS1 as described in the recen t "Curriculum Recommendations for th e Undergraduate Program in Computer Science " published by SIGCSE. The students complet e homework using the PASCAL language, an d take automated quizzes, using stand-alon e microcomputers with both graphic an d alphanumeric display capabilities. Th e course organization is similar to Keller' s Personalized System of Instruction (PSI). Typical enrollment is 500 per quarter, ye t the course consistently receives ver y favorable ratings from student attitud e surveys. Cost effective instruction i s achieved through use of : a) th e microcomputers ; b) experience d undergraduates as PSI "proctors" ; c) emphasis on team solution of homewor k problems. Course materials are availabl e to other campuses and consist of publishe d textbook, PASCAL based software syste m (quasi machine independent), and automate d quizzes and bookkeeping programs. Presentation of the paper will includ e demonstration of various aspects of thi s course. The packaged form of the cours e materials suggests that it should now b e possible to "publish" complete courses o f a new type in ways that make better use o f scarce faculty resources, while achievin g more effective instruction. 1. Backgroun d The course described in this paper aros e as a combination of four distinc t activities that may be of interest t o SIGCSE members. First, we sought to us e small stand-alone microcomputers as a means of increasing dramatically th e access of students to interactive compute r problem solving facilities fo r introductory level courses. Second, w e wanted to use PASCAL as the basis for th e introductory computer problem solving an d programming course offered to all student s at UCSD. Third, we selected proble m examples involving manipulation of graphi c images and character strings, whil e deemphasizing algebraic examples, as a means to reach the many students who lac k confidence in mathematics. Fourth, w e decided to use the Personalized System o f Instruction (PSI) both to make schedulin g of the microcomputers practical, and t o achieve more effective instruction. Several aspects of the resultin g combination lead to the suggestion tha t courses constructed along similar lines , in computer science as well as it sthe r science and engineering subjects, migh …