Effective teaching of Systems Analysis, Information Systems, or Management Information Systems requires innovative approaches that go beyond the traditional classroom approaches. The panel will present ideas that have worked successfully and can possibly be utilized by other departments. The approaches center on the application of learned material into a setting that will allow the student to experience the “work place” environment.
 Actual projects done in a team setting is the real key to improving the students learning of the subject material in systems analysis and design courses. This approach involves the skills of working in a team, writing, and presentation. The graduate gains experience and therefore preparation for the eventual job they will be doing from their class projects. Requirements of the faculty increase somewhat in this type of approach and the panel will discuss these issues also.
 Robert A. Barrett, Moderator
 In the area of systems analysis, information systems, and management information systems, we have in past symposiums presented papers that outline the courses and the course contents. We have not dealt with some of the approaches or methodologies of student assignments and work. Our department has an advisory committee that provides input/guidance to the needs that business and industry have in regards to the individual who is working as a programmer, programmer/analyst, or systems analyst. One of the major issues that is being discussed (and has been over the past two years) is the writing, speaking and team concept abilities of the working professional.
 We have incorporated many of the needs in the individual classes to enhance and reinforce the learning of the student in these three areas. We put the student into teams as much as possible and require as many written reports and presentations as possible.
 Ernest A. Kallman
 At Bentley the systems design course is a capstone course for seniors only. Its objective, beyond the obvious purpose of covering the systems design function, is to help the student make the transition from textbook understanding of information systems to actual real world experience. To that end some part of the course is given over to topics such as installation organization and management. To add further realism a team project is assigned which requires the observation of an actual computer installation in some organization other than Bentley College.
 John F. Schrage
 The curriculum follows concepts noted in the major computer curricula studies from ACM on both undergraduate and graduate levels. The DPMA model curriculum also influenced the program in information systems. The programs provide training and education in both programming and systems with specializations somewhat determined by each student. The number of systems courses has expanded in the last three years. The systems concepts are presented, reinforced in intermediate courses, and culminated in a real-world project for both levels of students.
 The capstone situation for all students in the computer area is a real-life problem and solution. Students form into teams of three or four and find an area company which has a systems-oriented problem applicable for solution within the ten-week term. The team approach is used in most of the courses, but the independence of students in this course shows more on adapting for the job market. Team work is done in all courses after the introduction course in concepts and programming.