The branch-and-bound algorithm is stated in generality, and illustrated by two applications, unidirectional graph search, and reducing a sparse matrix to its minimal band form. The algorithm is then generalised to multiple partitions, applied to bidirectional graph searching for both heuristic and non-heuristic searches, and further extended to graph searches and problem solving with subgoals. 641 1.0 Introduction and Summary The branch-and-bound algorithm is a simple technique for the optimisation search for the minimum (or maximum) of a function. It is very basic to artificial intelligence and operations research, and has been repeatedly rediscovered and used in the solution of hard problems. (1,2,6,9) In this paper I shall give a general statement of the algorithm, and then consider the application to reducing a sparse matrix to the band matrix of minimal band-width. After this I shall show that the well known graph searching methods (4,5,9) are somewhat disguised examples of branch-and-bound. This simple branch-and-bound idea will then bp extended to a more complex optimisation search with multiple starting points, in which form it will be used to solve the bidirectional graph-search problem, giving a new unified view of existing solutions, both heuristic and non-heuristic. Finally the application of multiple branch-and-bound is further extended to cover the use of subgoals in graph search and problem solving. Graph searching as a problem area in artificial intelligence is important because many problems can be represented as a graph which requires a path to be found between two given nodes (3,5,9). Any path between the start and termination nodes would constitute a solution, but a path of minimal length (= number of steps) can be thought of as the most 'elegant' solution, and is often aimed for. Hence icneral Problem Solving becomes finding the shortest path in a graph, which in turn is, as we shall see, a special application of the branch-and-bound al Torithm. However, not. all problems are most naturally formulated as graph searches; for example the travelling salesman problem is expressible as a shortest path problem, but occurs more naturally as a branch-and-bound application (6). Another example is a matching problem in chromosome analysis considered by Montonari (7); the natural way to tackle this problem is directly using branch-and-bound, but the author laboriously converts the problem to a graph search and then applies the algorithm of Hart, Nilson and Raphael (5).