Welcome to the World Wide Web Conference held during April 26-30, 2010, at the Raleigh Convention Center in Raleigh, North Carolina, USA. The WWW Conference is the largest and premier annual forum where researchers and developers from around the world assemble to share, discuss and debate the latest developments on Web technologies and standards and the Web's impact on society and culture. We are pleased to present the proceedings of the conference as its published record. 
 
Based on input from several office holders in recent WWW conferences, we implemented a number of modifications in the review process this time. In earlier years, WWW used a partitioned track system, and each paper was sent to exactly one track. This year, we implemented a system of overlapping (broad) areas and (fine) topics. Each broad area was represented by at least two, but often more, area chairs (ACs), who helped recruit the rest of the program committee (PC) members, but PC members were not partitioned by area. 
 
Each paper could potentially be assigned to any PC member. We downloaded a number of recent papers by each PC member to create a profile, and used its similarity with each submitted paper as one signal into the paper assignment process, while paying close attention to bids for papers by PC members. The assignments were then fine-tuned by the ACs. Each paper was first reviewed by three PC members. Then the ACs initiated discussions, solicited additional reviews if needed, and wrote at least one meta-review per paper summarizing and justifying the final decision. 
 
For most papers, the ACs had a confident decision before the PC meeting held 14-15th January. At this meeting, particularly complicated decisions were made and reviewed. Overall, we believe the two-tier review process ensures in-depth, reliable and fair evaluations. 
 
Other new features include a new demo track, where anyone, not just industrial exhibitors, can show a working system, and a new category of Application and Experience (A+E) papers that were reviewed for merit in design, implementation, benchmarking or extensive experience, as distinct from a core technical idea as in regular research submissions. Some A+E papers were nominated for demos. Other tracks for posters, tutorials, workshops, and developers were run as usual, separate from the research track. 
 
754 research papers were submitted. Of these, 91 were accepted as regular research papers and 14 were accepted as A+E papers. A total of 24 tutorials were proposed and 11 accepted. A total of 19 workshops were proposed and 11 were accepted. A total of 90 posters and 27 demos will be exhibited.