Online advertising is one of the primary funding sources for various of content, services, and applications on both web and mobile platforms. Mobile in-app advertising reuses many existing web technologies under the same ad-serving model (i.e., users - publishers - ad networks - advertisers). Nevertheless, mobile in-app advertising is different from the traditional web advertising in many aspects. For example, malicious app developers can generate fraudulent ad clicks in an automated fashion, but malicious web publishers have to launch click fraud with bots. In spite of using the same underlying web infrastructure, advertising threats behave differently on the two platforms. Existing works have studied separately click fraud and malvertising in the mobile setting. However, it is unknown if there exists a relationship between these two dominant threats. In this paper, we present an ad collection framework – MAdLife – on Android to capture all the in-app ad traffic generated during an ad's entire lifespan. MAdLife allows us to revisit both threats in a fine-grained manner and study the relationship between them. It further enables the exploration of other threats related to ad landing pages. We analyzed 5.7K Android apps crawled from the Google Play Store, and collected 83K ads and their landing pages using MAdLife. Similar to traditional web ads, 58K ads landed on web pages. We discovered 37 click-fraud apps, and found that 1.49% of the 58K ads were malicious. We also revealed a strong correlation between fraudulent apps and malicious ads. Specifically, 15.44% of malicious ads originated from the fraudulent apps. Conversely, 18.36% of the ads served in the fraudulent apps were malicious, while only 1.28% were malicious in the rest apps. This suggests that users of fraudulent apps are much more (14x) likely to encounter malicious ads. Additionally, we discovered that 243 popular JavaScript snippets embedded by over 10% of the landing pages were malicious. Finally, we conducted the first analysis on inappropriate mobile in-app ads.