We welcome you to the 2nd ACM Workshop on Challenged Networks (CHANTS), the third workshop in its series after WDTN 2005 and CHANTS 2006 focusing on communication in challenged networking environments in general and delay-tolerant networking in particular. 
 
Challenged and delay-tolerant communications are receiving more and more attention. The assumptions of the disruption-prone or opportunistic nature of networking peered with potentially non-existing end-to-end paths are becoming commonly accepted for research in many areas, including (but not limited to) mobile ad-hoc and sensor networks as can be witnessed from many recent publications addressing these issues. Particularly ad-hoc communication among mobile human users with their specific mobility patterns and application demands--for daily life and in extreme situations such as disaster management--has attracted many researchers' attention. We observe how research efforts expand their scope in many ways highly relevant to the future of challenged communications: from synthetic mobility models to realistic ones (e.g., based upon human mobility traces), from routing protocols and optimizations to real applications, from isolated views of individual problems to system and integration aspects, and from simulations to implementations. At the same time, fundamental research on understanding and categorizing algorithms and protocols for challenged networks are pursued to provide a more solid foundation where our current understanding is still in the early stages. 
 
This year's workshop program reflects these trends in a balanced way. A keynote by Prof. Kevin Almeroth will set the stage giving his perspectives on future research questions for Challenged Networks. In our sessions, we will cover basic concepts of DTN routing, the interaction of routing and mobility including implementation aspects, and a wide range of different applications for human interaction in general as well as for specific scenarios. The 11 papers included in the workshop were selected out of 29 submissions. Each paper received three independent single-blind reviews by the TPC members (a proxy review approach ensured the single-blind process also for those papers where a co-chair was co-author). In support of the trend towards implementations, this year's workshop provides a venue for primarily practical and otherwise hard-to-publish results and therefore includes a demonstration session. This is complemented by poster presentations of early results of ongoing work. 
 
We hope that you will enjoy the combination of theory and practice that CHANTS 2007 has to offer and that you will find the papers and presentations interesting and stimulating for your future work. We look forward to a highly interactive workshop as an opportunity to share ideas and challenges with other researchers from around the world.